dropping an object into water causes what?
Alkalosis is a blood pH above 7.45.
Kiwifruit flowers are pollinated by bees.
Bobcats eat a variety of animals, including mice and voles, squirrels, rabbits and deer.
Eagles are a big bird.
What can be used to extend the shelf life of that food?
What can cause your insurance rates to skyrocket?
Birds are flowering plant pollinators.
Each nephron has a glomerulus.
what does gases from burning coal and oil dissolving in water in the atmosphere do?
water vapor cooling causes that water vapor to condense
What are reptiles called as?
The weight of an item causes its what?
What are sunlight and rain?
Electron transport is like a waterfall.
What can being near the sun do to an object?
What is an important function of a refrigertor?
Immunization can be active or passive.
what kind of circulatory system can some segmented animals have?
what adapts to cold temperatures?
what does plasma ionize?
Fog is common in the cold air ahead of the front.
Cells are what to a limited number of divides?
what do feathers help fly?
Antibodies act as warriors.
Animals live on the vegetation found in the biomes.
Rain is always water.
What is used to keep foods as simple and as natural as possible?
What reproduce sexually?
Muscle and internal organs are protected by:
Today, Menopause is seen more as a gateway to a second adulthood.
Many cancers can cause immunodeficiency.
what can scraping oneself on a contaminated object cause?
What do turnips use to grow in length and width?
Scent marks contain molecules called pheromones.
Earth is our planet.
What is formed when a male gamete and an egg fuse together?
when an animal moves , chemical energy is converted to mechanical energy
What has a positive impact on an organisms' health?
the ability to sense and maintain body position prevents people what
Tidal energy is renewable .
Erosion breaks rocks down from larger parts into what?
How are dogs trained on how to behave?
If the rate of breathing is too fast or too slow, what my become unstable?
Metals become what readily
What is formed from magma cooling?
The change of vapor into water, as in the formation of rain.
What will a neutral atom that loses an electron attract?
using a car causes pollution
Coal releases mercury when it is burned.
How does recycling impact the environment?
What is a type of the basic units of the structure and function of living things?
Some pain can be harmful.
What can uneven heating of the earth's surface cause?
Food can be cooked using what?
what can erosion cause?
Bacteria are single-cell microorganisms that are so small they can only be seen with a microscope.
Aerobic organisms consume VOAs and alcohols.
What are cacti likely to survive?
Plants include blue pine, hemlock, spruce and oak.
Chromosomes and Chromosome Links Chromosomes are wonderful.
Where do organisms cluster on the ocean floor?
what can a magnet moving in a coil of copper cause?
a means of reproduction are commonly found where?
Tissues form skin, what forms tissue?
Ethanol is a domestically produced, renewable fuel.
Schwinn bikes have carried many TWW'ers to the podium time and time again.
How does coal produce electricity?
Electrons separating from what in certain bright astronomical objects forms plasma?
Oncogenes promote the division of cells using the damaged form of what?
What can chemical splashing cause to humans?
For example, it takes energy to boil water on the stove.
Water is liquid and formless.
Mollusks in the diorama include snails and clams.
Temperatures in the winter can be brutal.
What can scraping onself cause?
What pulls objects towards planets is created by 
When happens to condensed water vapor when it reaches certain points?
Producers gain in terms of producer surplus.
A cell cycle that is no longer regulated can lead to what?
What increases in concentration when water evaporates?
What tissue do neurons make up?
Meiosis is the type of cell division that produces gametes.
What has a negative impact on an organism?
What can change the state of matter?
An object that absorbs all the light waves with none reflected back , is perceived as black .
What is used for protecting plants while killing beneficial pollinators?
Genes that are located on the same chromosome are chained together by the what?
All monkeys are mammals.
Amphibians also use smell and hearing to hunt prey.
what does energy enter in the form of sunlight or chemical compounds?
What targets cells that grow out of control?
What can cause a lake to form?
Plants detect and respond to the daily cycle of light and darkness.
The reference to the warmth of the body is important here because the body when ill does get warm or warmer or even hot due to high temperature of fever.
The opposite of when cells convert oxygen and carbs into carbon dioxide, water, and energy is what?
Daylight hours are at a maximum, and summer begins.
What are the major producers in temperature and precipitation?
Winds destroy homes and businesses.
Infection can cause meningitis.
Pollination is usually accomplished by bees.
When water molecules inside the cell freeze, they occupy a larger space.
Photosynthetic plants convert solar energy to chemical bond energy in carbohydrates.
Autotrophs make food from what?
Still it takes about eight minutes for sunlight to travel from the sun to the earth.
an animal jumps, bites and growls to cause what
Todays computers use electricity and silicon chips.
seasons cause change to the environment
What are woody and shed their leaves seasonally?
What uses leaves to store water?
what can power plants cause?
Conductor A conductor is any material that carries electricity.
What organ do land animals use for life to continue. 
A photon is a packet of light energy.
Botulism affects the nervous system.
what are cells the basic units of?
Parasites are organisms that obtain their food from living organisms.
Exercise is important to keeping healthy and what?
What are extremely important biomes?
what do flowers attract?
Friction occurs when surfaces rub together.
What behavior causes people to hurt others?
a what can have a negative impact on ecosystem
Friction causes the heat of an object to do what?
What is a waste product of the body that is excreted by the urinary system?
Difficult things to classify are what?
Arthropods and most mollusks have an open circulatory system.
Frogs are the most durable of the amphibians.
Most salamanders use their sense of smell to find a mate.
What pulls objects towards large objects that orbit stars?
An aneurysm is a dilation, or bubble, that occurs in the wall of an artery.
Cell phones can cause people in cars to what?
What does moss do to a rock?
What are molecules that the defense system recognizes as foreign to the body?
All corals begin as a single polyp.
a thermal insulator slows the transfer of heat
Desmids are green algae, members of the Chlorophyta.
Which is the most likely cause of throat tumors?
Protein builds and repairs body tissue.
Liquid waste is put into the bladder.
Riding a bike does not cause what?
what have a circulatory system with one or two hearts that pump blood
What is it called when light allows an image to be focused on the retina?
An enzyme is a biological catalyst .
Asbestos is a dangerous carcinogen.
Lack of moisture in the air causes 
All nucleus share the same basic what
a flower 's purpose is to produce seeds
Once the trees are cut, they become logs .
If a shelter can't support animals, what will the animals do?
a disease that can be metastic occurs when the cell cycle is regulated how often?
What are cacti?
Most of what kind of animal have good eyesight and a good sense of smell?
Some plants store water after absorbing it with what?
an earthquake causes the ground to shake
Air moving through a room helps a person to feel less short of breath.
What are cells the basic units of the structure and function of?
many what feed at more than one trophic level
What has a woody stem covered with bark?
What can turn a lightbulb on?
What controls other endocrine glands?
Watersheds are creeks, streams and rivers.
Hairs and fibers are easily shed.
Most of the heat for the Earth comes from the core.
Trees are cut down in the forest and are then sent to a paper mill.
Autumn or Fall is almost over.
Gravity is the force that keeps the earth in orbit about our sun.
That there are seasons on Earth is partly due to: 
Humans are consumers in food webs.
How is the change of a liquid to a gas measured?
What is something cells cannot survive without?
What can run on alcoholic fermentation of the glucose in corn or other plants?
White vinegar is a 5 percent acetic acid solution.
When ice causes rocks to crack by expanding in openings, what is this called?
what are required for cell growth?
Finally, the magma comes to rest, cools, and solidifies.
What do most salamanders use to find a mate?
Plants that cannot exhibit phototropism will what?
Mutations can be inherited if the cells undergo meiosis or mitosis.
Viruses are not what
Human beings are animals.
When gametes fuse, the resultant zygote is:
Soil oxygen effects on root development.
Human viruses are created by natural process.
All geologic time can be divided into two eons.
Components of water (H2O) 2.
And thousands of new babies means a population increase.
What do some consumers transfer from more than one producer?
high temperatures can cause an object to combust
What happens when incandescent bulbs get hot
During winter, their hollow fur absorbs much heat as they sun themselves.
What does an incandescent light bulb use to convert electricity into light 
A doorbell converts _ into sound
Motilities are full and smooth.
With so many does and so few older bucks, there is little competition for mating.
What can cause whales to move to a new location?
Most stalactites are formed from drips of water.
Fish and rice are the staple foods.
If a material is heated, it expands and the density decreases.
Brain cells die quickly if their oxygen supply is cut off.
The haircoat of a dog is useful for
If an object is made of a what then that object has the properties of that thing?
Name an animal with a backbone?
Heat is present in all matter.
generating heat by what occurs at power stations
Heating salt water causes the water to do what while the salt remains?
Organisms use what to store energy?
Additional topics include mating, nesting, and reproduction.
Oxygen enters the respiratory system through the mouth and the nose.
What can cause lakes to form?
An ecosystem can be in a desert, a tropical jungle, an ocean or a pond.
Soil or dirt is a very heavy material.
What, when heated, turns into liquid water?
Another dissolved substance in ocean water is a type of rock called limestone .
What can help clients to heal?
thirst is used to make an animal realize that it needs to replenish its bodily water by the body
condensing means the opposite change of state to what?
Certain aquatic organisms eaten by fish have what kind of life cycles?
Igneous rocks are made from lava that hardens.
The process by which genes are passed is
What must a chemical reaction overcome before starting?
What can cause famine?
what releases oxygen during the day but not during the night?
What can be a gas or a liquid?
A positive impact on the environment can be from:
Bone is the substance that forms the skeleton of the body.
Dark colors absorb light energy.
What increases the oxygen near a combustion reaction?
What can bacteria cause?
All chemical reactions require the initial input of energy to get the reaction what?
Why do tigers compete?
On Earth, mantle convection causes plate tectonics, volcanism, and earthquakes.
An asteroid is a rock-like object with an irregular shape.
An object is an item in the real world.
what is the largest group of animals?
Millions of people fly safely in airplanes every year.
A sandbar is formed by 
the movement of tectonic plates causes volcanic eruptions
With switch closed, electricity flows through wires, switch and bulb, to light up the bulb.
Which has a nervous system?
What increases the risk of getting skin cancer?
Vessels carry deoxygenated what?
the gravitational pull of the Moon on Earth 's oceans causes the tides
What comes from reproduction?
Sporangia produce spores that develop into what gametophytes?
What are used for travel and trade?
Most disinfectants contain organic solvents that are flammable and poisonous.
_ is the breakdown of rock.
what fuses to form a diploid zygote during fertilization?
What causes muscle fibers to get shorter?
What causes the gravitational force exerted by an asteroid?
Temperature change and ice wedging help to make soil.
Most electrical conductors, such as wires, are made of copper or gold.
What can generate little bursts of heat by shivering?
What is important in preventing heat loss from the body?
Regular sugar is also called sucrose.
Amphibians have what sort of sensing system?
what causes thermal expansion?
What can be learned from heating a liquid?
Gametes are haploid egg or sperm that fuse to form a zygote.
Nectar is secreted in a shallow nectar cup at the base of flower.
Fertilization of what would produce a diploid zygote?
Energy produced by the sun in the form of heat and light is called solar energy.
BRCA2 Are Responsible For Over Half Of All Inherited Breast Cancers.
What can make a chemical reaction easier to get started?
What breaks up into two lighter elements when an animal divides into two parts?
What is caused by sunlight and rain?
which of the following are endothermic tetrapod animals with backbones?
what gets changed into natural gas due to heat and pressure?
Slime molds are nonparasitic.
Richard the Lion Heart's shield has three lions on it.
cancer is a defect that occurs when there is no longer regulation of what?
What property do germs have that can make people sick?
After the storm, a rainbow appears.
what happens to fibers after muscle activation?
Boiling is the change of state from liquid to gas, with condensation the reverse change.
What can a doorbell convert into sound?
What is formed when calcite is dissolved?
what often requires pollen to reproduce?
Sedimentation is the result of erosion.
Protective hair grows between the toes.
what populations do not grow through cell division because they are not cells?
What contributes to forming stalactites and stalagmites?
Infections occur as a result of contaminated wounds.
you can determine the growth rate of the forest by examining what?
Air pollution is caused by the build-up of harmful gases and particles in the air.
Woody plants such as trees and shrubs have stiff stems or trunks covered in bark.
Tumor simply means abnormal growth.
Which of the following interferes with the assembly of proteins?
Shivering heats the body.
What does gasoline release when it separates?
What mostly contain the instructions for a single protein?
Microbial fuel cells convert chemical energy into 
Reefs are built by tiny organisms called polyps.
Parasites get what from producers?
Bones work with muscles to perform movement.
Most animals that live on rocky shores eat plankton.
Seasons result from variations in the amount of the sun's energy hitting the surface.
what can a magnet moving in a coil of copper wire cause?
Winds are a key factor in determining global weather patterns.
Genes are passed from parent to offspring.
What kind of animal would be an endothermic tetrapod vertebrate?
What does lack of snow cause?
Gene flow occurs when individuals move into or out of a population.
The vanes rotating in an electric fan causes
Multicellular glands include the endocrine glands .
Rainfall is more at the tropics and on windward side of mountains.
what have both asexual and sexual reproduction?
An egg cell divides into many cells.
some what have good eyesight and a keen sense of smell
If the number of individual members of a species becomes to high in a fixed area, the species can 
Deltas and estuaries are important habitats.
Rainbows are caused by internal reflection and refraction of sunlight or moonlight inside raindrops.
what uses thirst to realize it needs to replenish its bodily water?
what does a greenhouse protect plants from?
Sulfate particles irritate the lower respiratory system.
Bright red fluid blood is the exception, but has been recorded.
What is an arthopod with two wings?
What do many animals do at more then one trophic level?
Of all nature's disasters, forest fires are often considered the most frightening.
Because at the boiling point of water, there are molecules that are a gas and that are a liquid.
Coal-fired power plants contribute to acid rain.
This process is always more complex in eukaryotes than prokaryotes
Plants may die without what?
Stems of plants include trunks and branches.
What does kicking an object cause it to do?
Being buried under soil and mud changes what into bogs through extreme pressure and heat?
Glass causes the _ of light
a flashlight converts chemical energy into light energy
Pushes and pulls can change the movement of an object.
planted seeds can be what in a greenhouse
For example, proteins are made in an organelle called a ribosome.
When you do origami, objects change
How can cells of the Tobacco Mosaic be seen?
In winter, the northern hemisphere is tilted away from the sun.
All echinoderms are deuterostomes .
Intelligence is primarily a genetically inherited trait.
Ants use receptors on their antennae to follow recruitment pheromone trails.
What is a key factor determining global weather patterns?
What are the microscopic and organic molecules of living organisms?
What causes less cells to be produced 
what do animals get?
Many animals rely on sounds to communicate to others in their species.
If the waste accumulates, the cell ages and dies.
Most definitions of aggression include behaviors that are intended to hurt or harm others.
Green plants use chlorophyll to capture the energy of sunlight and convert it to food.
What can provide a renewable resource?
What occurs when haploid gametes unite?
An era is a period of time in which events occur.
Raw coal can be burned to produce electricity.
Leaves lack Vascular Tissues.
Human muscle cells produce energy for contraction from glucose.
What controls the urination process?
insect bites cause harm to living things
Kittens practice hunting by playing.
some animals are what for staying warm in the winter?
How can an animal learn actions?
if an object is kicked then force is exerted on that object
What causes loss of beaches?
Water can be tested for coliform and fecal coliform bacteria.
what breathes with the help of a diaphragm?
Cancer cells are a type of malignant cell.
People, animals and plants are threatened with massive destruction of their environment.
If no rain or watering, the plant dies.
If you blow oxygen inside of a whistle, what will vibrate inside of the whistle?
Results underline the benefits of such vaccination policy.
What bodies of water are bigger and deeper than ponds?
what influences the ability of organisms to micro-evolve to their environment?
What causes water to expand?
What can heating a liquid cause?
What can dill pickles do to eyes?
Disease causing microbes have what type of impact on humans?
A platypus is an example of 
Uneven heating on the Earth's surface can cause what?
What is the average weather in Taiwan over a long period of time?
Many plants attract bees with the color of their flowers and nectar.
what floor do organisms cluster around hydrothermal vents on?
Food irradiation is blazingly high-tech.
Mammals are dioecious with sexual reproduction and internal fertilization.
What occurs with the stopping of menses?
a fire requires oxygen to burn
what do proteins contain?
Condensation of water vapor occurs during the chilling season.
Weather affects distribution locally.
Animal long term survival requires what?
All ferns are shade plants.
Economy is affected by population size and density.
What can stay in a dormant state?
Fire gives heat energy plus light.
What bonds cause H2O to expand when freezing?
Desertification implies soil erosion.
Energy is needed to melt the ice.
Thunder is a rich source of loudness.
aging occurs because of a loss of what?
What disrupts the cycle between organisms and the atmosphere?
What is burned to produce heat?
complex social behaviors can be seen in insects living how
Sugar or sugar and milk are combined to make sweet chocolate.
How does evaporation benefit your body?
What might cause animals to leave their environment?
Breathing is regulated to keep as normal as possible arterial blood pH and PO2.
When does haze get denser?
what is generally preceded by flirting in a modern relationship?
the health of what is positively impacted by having food?
Annelids have bodies that are segmented.
Many nucleotides bind together to form a chain called a polynucleotide.
Prolactin is another hormone made in the pituitary gland.
What can't too much sunlight sustain?
What is common in males of the same species?
What do cranberries need for production?
what can be inherited?
Germination depends on the seed coat.
Microtubules help prokaryotes _.
Moonlight is little more than sunlight reflected off a moon.
Solar energy is provided by the sun and collected by a solar panel.
How do cars damage the environment?
Rocks weather at different rates.
First the chromosomes duplicate themselves.
Electricity is really the movement of electrons.
What contains chloroplasts, organelles found in the cells?
If something is what, then it absorbs all different wavelengths of light?
What does a warm front cause?
How does water crack rocks?
If a tumor has formed, this gene might have mutated:
carbon dioxide concentrations in the air have increased over the last decade dramatically
Landslides are frequent, and erosion is severe.
Like caffeine, nicotine is a stimulant.
Water, heat, or freezing cold can damage items.
Where do coral colonies form?
Streams may start with runoff seeping out of water containing what?
What causes day and night?
Boundaries between air masses can cause
what deposits soil in flood plains when it floods?
Why does life continue?
What has good eyesight?
Light bulbs are rated in Watts.
an electric stove transforms electrical energy to heat energy
Biodiversity generally increases from the poles to the area where what is found?
What do stems grow towards?
Phytoplankton  use what to make food?
With less energy, the electron slows down.
where do many species of fish find food?
Antigens are molecules that the immune system recognizes as foreign to the body.
Where there is no water there is drought.
Decreasing what during travel likely conserves fuel?
What is something people can survive only a few days without?
Heat and pressure upon fossils creates what?
Insects are the only arthropod to have wings.
What does honey have?
Plants do what by absorbing water quickly through their roots?
Plants are amazingly adaptable organisms.
Basically the process is pretty simple.
Where would temperature be the lowest?
what responds to daily and season cycles and diseases?
What can heavy rains damage?
When one region is tilted towards the sun, it receives more what?
Anything out of the ordinary can startle and spook animals into uncommon and dangerous behaviors.
Passive immunity decreases with
Silts and muds are transported to the open ocean and deposited off the coast.
Light is all our eyes can really see.
Cacti are adapted to what?
an animal requires air for survival
What attracts animal pollinators?
Aquatic animals in water use webbed feet due to what?
What is used to protect plants from contracting molecules?
What results in changing from a gas into a liquid by reducing heat energy?
Graptolites , in deep-water deposits, are the dominant fossils.
Worms such as the familiar earthworm are what?
Most of the food consumed by people worldwide comes from
What does liquid turn into when it's heated?
What is a major route of removing wastes from the body?
Perspiration There are about 2 million sweat glands in the average human body.
Toxic food poisoning is caused by eating plants that are poisonous.
Animals living under ground deal with fire remarkably what?
What can negatively impact animal survival?
What protects crops from being eaten?
Grasses supply most of the food consumed by people worldwide.
Plasma Cells Plasma Cells Plasma cells are the mature form of B-lymphocytes.
With an increase in population there is an increase in expenditures.
What is a disease that occurs when the cell cycle is no longer regulated?
What do clownfish seek shelter in?
What do mollusks have?
What causes pollution in rain?
Involvement in play takes time and energy.
What is used to increase temperature?
what does insulin help take up from the blood?
What comes from eggs?
Growth hormone is an important hormone that declines with aging.
Sunlight is the ultimate form of energy.
plants are the major producers in terrestrial what?
Male dogs use pheromones in urine to mark their territory.
What does cooking an egg cause?
what can be changed from smooth to compacted by physical force?
Model rocketry can be used to study how people are what?
What do some animals not have?
Plant reproduction often requires what?
How can we learn about the seasons by using a tree?
Nutrients are needed for the body to grow and remain healthy.
Peachleaf willow is a deciduous tree.
What does rhizobial bacteria do for plants?
Cell division leads to the growth of cells in the population.
High Nitrogen High nitrogen causes rapid growth.
Conventional myosin is required for the final stage of what?
Earthquakes Earthquakes are very deadly.
Biomolecules covered include amino acids, proteins, enzymes, vitamins and hormones.
Plant tissues are produced from meristems.
Many patients with lung cancer also have emphysema.
If testosterone is present, male external genitalia develop b.
Molds and spores thrive in water-damaged furniture and carpets.
An aneurysm is a dilation of a blood vessel.
Birds and animals eat such food .
Examples of such streams are the Nile and Colorado Rivers.
Trees clean and cool the air.
Most of the plasma is electrons and protons.
Increases in carbon dioxide make the greenhouse effect worse.
What heats quickly?
Asexual cell division is called Mitosis.
Male mammals have a tube-like organ called the 'penis'.
If there is sun, there is sunlight, there is day.
What is a possible negative effect of exposing soil to wind 
Sharks use their tail to move through the water.
Hermaphrodites are female animals that make both sperm and oocytes.
Dilatation is the widening of the cervix using progressively wider metal rods.
Side chairs fold for easy storage.
What do sporangia produce
Plants are multicellular eukaryotes with what walls?
Electric shock is passage of electric current through the body.
Cancer genes can be a what?
Solar power, wind power, and recycling are resources that are renewable.
When does spore enclosure produce heart-shaped gametophytes?
Kicks and punches are important to keeping a healthy body.
What can HPV cause?
Cells are RNA machines with proteins.
Cactuses store water, serving as their own reservoirs and surviving long droughts.
what feeds plants?
Most animals with external skeletons and jointed legs are what?
Macaques are known for their aggressive behavior.
What can harm human sight?
What decreases the amount of cars used to travel to a place?
What must be adapted to the salt in the water?
Lung cancer is most often caused by exposure to
Heat energy is measured in calories.
Compost balances the pH of soil.
An ocarina is a multiple-tone whistle.
What can viruses be seen with?
eyes are used for seeing by animals by sense of what?
Marine species live mainly in shallow coastal waters.
What can be learned through play?
Gas generator turbine is the turbine portion of a gas generator.
Phases refer to the different shapes the moon appears from the earth.
What is the most durable species that breathes with gills as larvae and lungs as adults?
what have Hair which is a fiber
If populations work together what will happen?
An animal living where will be protected from an elemental part of the ecosystem?
Softer melt point wax is used to produce an even burning candle.
Granite and basalt are examples of igneous rocks.
Chlorophyll Chlorophyll is the green colouring matter of plant leaves.
Causes Body heat is lost mainly through perspiration or sweating.
What organisms are most likely to be saved in the winter by a greenhouse
Salinity is a measure of how much salt is in the water.
Rabbits are what, so they cannot remove toxic material from their stomachs before it is absorbed?
What does the movement of air mass over the world's surface cause?
What do we experience when we get too cold?
tectonic plates being pushed together causes what?
Fuligo septica causes a slime mold.
Transform is a generic term meaning change the shape.
If we disconnect the battery, the flow of electrons is no longer driven by the chemical forces in the battery.
The basic functioning unit of life all share the same what?
How are clouds formed?
What affects farm viaility?
What rocks are formed by deposition?
Lake trout can also be found in some of the lakes.
Examples of mechanical waves include water waves, waves on a string, and sound waves.
Which normal weather event can threaten aquatic habitats? 
What occurs over geologic time above the level of the species?
What does fire require to get started?
bacteria can cause people to need what?
A greenhouse is used to protect flowers from what?
Beavers know how to cut wood and build dams.
what can keep you warm?
What freezes into ice?
The body cools itself when wetness evaporates from what?
What content increases melting points of solids?
Salt adds density to the water so objects float.
A vital role of hormones produced by the pituitary gland
What inhibits a plant to grow?
Second half becomes rocky with small stream crossings some standing water.
Light quanta are called photons.
Tape measure is required to measure distance.
Ions are atoms or groups of atoms that carry a positive or negative electrical charge.
Boiling point is also affected by pressure.
What excites the central nervous system?
Air is everywhere in the earth's atmosphere.
Chemical energy is the energy stored in molecules.
Plants have many adaptations for conserving water or storing it.
Bottleneck effect can occur with 
With a thick fur coat and 4 inches of fat a bear stays warm.
What does vision give you?
Alternative instructions for a single protein are encoded on:
a tape measure is used to measure length
Bright sun works best.
Latitude and season cause temperature variations.
Viruses are the cause of many diseases.
Irradiation kills microorganisms that spoil food.
Death occurs when the organs are no longer able to function.
Sweat and perspiration are an annoyance with glasses.
what are used for measuring volume of substances
what influences plants in aquatic environments
Excretion is the process of removing wastes and excess water from the body.
What are formed by soil, sand, clay and organic materials?
what are landslides caused by?
What can recognize cancer cells as foreign to the body?
the cells way of reproducing is what in eukaryotes than prokaryotes
what type of vapor cooling causes that vapor to condense?
oil is formed by layers of sediment pushing down on decomposing algae
On high heat, bring to a boil.
what are molecules that contain a single protein?
what lives in water?
On bare, dry soil, wind erosion can remove significant quantities of topsoil.
Conventional light bulbs generate light by heating a filament.
disease has a negative impact on an organism
Which types of animals dominate in competition for territory?
Once the water is removed, the waste becomes a semi- solid mass and is prepared for excretion.
What is moved by mechanical energy in an automobile?
Albumin is a type of protein found in body tissues and fluids.
Solvent Paints Solvent paints use organic solvents as the volatile vehicle.
What helps plants cultivate their entire live span?
glass cause refraction of light
What cools the body?
What does immunization cause?
Desertifcation can be caused by overgrazing, soil erosion, prolonged drought, or climate change.
Almost 90 percent of the body's heat loss is from the head.
chemical splashing can cause harm to humans
A generator converts kinetic energy into something, which can then be converted to light by what?
Plants and snakes live _.
What can be heard through the ear?
After sediments are deposited, they are gradually buried by more sediments.
in evolution, what changes in living things over time?
Where do braciopods live?
Which can move?
many nucleotides bind together to form a chain of something that is what to proteins?
Each trophic level has less biomass and a loss of energy content.
All animals with radial symmetry live in water.
When snow falls to the ground and soaks into the ground, what can it become?
Burning fuel in a furnace can 
Electromagnetic energy enters the body through what part of the eye?
Why would a gorilla dominate all of the resources of a group?
What type of energy does an electric stove transform electricity into?
What can communicate with sounds, chemicals, or visual cues?
If ions lose an electron then an atom with what will be formed?
What are the major produces of ecosystems that make up the land?
Waxy leaves keep the plant from drying out.
what are found in the salt water of the ocean
Dehydration causes increased thirst and water consumption.
What do nephrons filter?
What does igneous intrusion create?
Which of the following organisms would reproduce sexually and not asexually?
What can some viruses cause?
Epiphytes can eventually lead to the production of what? 
Bacteria are normally classified as either 'good' bacteria or 'bad' bacteria.
On the surface of each microscopic color filter is also a microscopic lens.
Each of the steps in the food chain is a trophic level .
What are global wind patterns caused by?
Use of resources affects the environment such as pollution.
Most pituitary hormones control integrating what?
What keeps a fire burning?
Chloroplasts are organelles that are found in the cells of plants and algae.
Some flowers are what?
What can be a source of food for many species of fish?
Clams are mollusks that live in the sea or in freshwater.
being preserved under many layers changes vegetation into peat through extreme what?
Solar-powered lights that use LED bulbs provide the most efficient and most hours of light at night.
creating paper requires cutting down trees
what carries oxygen-rich blood?
Games are fun to play.
organisms belonging to the phylum Platyhelminthes have evolved a close association with their what
Phospholipids are body fats, too.
Neurotransmitters and hormones are what in their function?
What provides food for terrestrial biomes?
Some bacteria have specialized dormancy structure, the endospore .
Human beings are vertebrates.
what is the basis for natural selection?
Some experts claim that cell phones in cars are dangerous.
What do exoskeletons secreted by corals do?
What would prevent a protist from moving?
What have sense organs to smell and taste chemicals?
What do hurricanes do to the amount of water contained in bodies in water?
Pheromones are chemicals produced by animals allowing individuals of a species to communicate.
Ducks are strange animals.
Predators are consumers that catch and eat other consumers for their food.
What can cause harm to humans?
Lung cancer is a formation of tumors in the lung.
Wind speed is important for wind energy.
Earth is one of the planets orbiting a star called the Sun.
Language can be learned through
Most any other sounds can be frightening or startling.
Work items are broken down by year of effort.
Examples of anabolic hormones are testosterone and nandrolone.
Heat production is increased by shivering and non-shivering thermogenesis .
What do muscles contain?
What is most likely to be eaten by a mole?
Evolution has occurred over geologic time.
What do animals lack?
Sweat glands pump perspiration through pores.
Severe wind erosion is the result.
What can easily become hot if exposed to heat?
Typically, the liquid is water.
What are membranes attached to sites where proteins are made?
Mutation leads to _.
Where is deoxyribonucleic acid found?
And, a species can split into two species.
What for cranberries have a negative impact on the environment?
Hormones are the chemical messengers of the body's endocrine system.
Which action will cause chemical bonds to form?
what do ecosystems get energy from?
What do blood vessels carry?
Wetlands are what major world habitats?
what have a positive impact on a human's health?
What can cause plants to receive less energy
Biomolecules are made in where?
Animals are consumers , they feed on the primary producers or on other consumers.
what does plant reproduction often require?
Hormones, produced by the endocrine system, act as chemical messengers targeting specific organs.
When water evaporates, salts in the water remain and become more concentrated.
Using a bellows can do what to the oxygen near a fire? 
what is freshwater habitats that contain little or no salt?
Eye color is determined by information found in
What do sharks use to convert oxygen?
Lasers, for instance, produce coherent light.
When iron oxidizes it produces iron oxide, more commonly referred to as rust.
What can low moisture in the air cause?
What type of evolution is very, very slow above the level of the species?
Landslides can be destructive.
Geologists break time down into geologic time units called eras .
Every body needs plenty of hydration, and water is the best source of that hydration.
what cannot survive without oxygen?
After an infection or injury to the lung, what can happen?
We learned about desert plants and how they adapt themselves to the hot dry desert environment so they can survive.
Ribosomes are sites where proteins are made.
How does heat make an object hot?
Wood is what for cooking food
What forms soil?
what can make proteins?
Habitat loss and hunting are the two major causes for their declining populations.
What can can break down rocks from larger wholes into smaller pieces?
Serious skin cancer is caused by sunburns in childhood.
Bulbs planted in pots are particularly susceptible to cold damage.
Position is just a word for where something is located.
Reptiles are a class of tetrapod vertebrates that produce eggs with a what?
What is used to protect producers and keep them warm?
Flowers require
Female gametes are called eggs.
Most animals live by ingesting food and digesting it within specialized cavities.
What element may be stored in sandstone for millions of years?
DNA is deoxyribonucleic acid.
What effect do pathogens have.
All vertebrates more advanced than fish have four limbs, each with up to five fingers or toes.
Growth is very energy consuming.
How can you avoid harming your eyes?
What increases a body's flexibility?
Pines in general are popular trees.
Growth occurring where forms vascular tissues and bark?
What do engines cause?
Solvents are substances, usually liquid, that dissolve other substances.
What does heat and pressure change into natural gas?
Cancer is an example of a mutation in cells.
Sweat is only relieved by cool hydration.
Mineral sediments are normal.
Ocean thermal is energy derived from waves and also from tidal waves.
Thirst shows an animal that it needs what?
Migration- Movement of a group of animals from one place to another.
From animal experiments, it seems to be a central nervous system toxin.
A plant requires _ for photosynthesis
When a hemisphere is tilted towards the sun , that hemisphere receives
Most fish breathe through gills.
what can cause a tooth to swell?
What do substances in the pituitary control?
what has force exerted on it when kicked?
The stomach is part of the digestive system.
Water vapor rises into the atmosphere.
Having thousands of new babies means what?
What may increase when a plant grows?
Light contains energy.
Population density varies considerably.
Macroevolution requires adding new genes with special capability.
Pushing on the pedals of a tricycle causes it to do what?
Each system is equipped with a control, a heat producer, a heat exchanger, and a heat distributor.
What do bees aid many plants in doing?
Chemical changes are a result of chemical reactions.
Gas Ionization Losing electrons ionizes the atoms in a gas.
Ice wedging is when water 
Bees and other insects are attracted on purpose by what?
Cells are the microscopic building bricks of what?
Gasoline, paints and solvents evaporate, releasing reactive organic compounds.
Another well known plant is the Mesquite Bush.
White bryony is used for suppressed menses, menstruation too early and too profuse.
if a neutral atom loses an electron then an atom with a negative charge will be formed
When liquids are heated above a point, a liquid is converted to what?
when a river floods, Cashion soils are what?
Ocean thermal can be used to produce
what do light bulbs use?
Blueberries retain their antioxidant benefits after dehydration.
Mechanisms by which intracellular pathogens evade activation of the cell mediated immune response.
Where can slime mold, a fungus like protist, most likely be found?
Monotremes include the duckbill platypus.
Themajority of sea-level rise is due to thermal expansion.
Roots grow in length and width from both what?
deserts are a location where wind transport can deposit what
Infrared light is invisible to the eye.
What do plants use to attract bees?
What do some bacteria lack?
Hydrothermal vents are fissures in the ocean floor that leak hot, acidic water.
How many times does an egg cell perform division?
what can run through a wire causing it to heat up?
What side does rainfall fall?
When cell walls relax they
what does fire provide?
What can sunglasses protect against?
What affects the harvest?
what causes the speed of an object to decrease
Courtship is a behavior that animals use to attract what?
if an object reflects light toward the eye then that object can be seen
macroevolution occurs over what, above the level of the species?
What can Mynah birds undergo to compete for nest holes?
What causes rain to fall?
Climate change has been linked to the increasing ferocity of natural disasters.
What causes an object to combust?
What adapt to Arctic temperatures?
Organelles that come in pairs are involved in what?
Incandescent light bulbs use a tungsten filament sealed inside a glass bulb.
What can be seen more?
what keeps food fresh?
Erosion is the natural wearing away.
Stem cells are cells that can become many tissues and organs.
Cold fronts cause what?
An ecosystem's what increases its productivity and stability
Planetary moons are natural satellites.
Freezing point depression is a colligative property.
what are interrelated?
What gives a rusty red color to sedimentary rocks?
Electrical energy can be converted into kinetic energy and heat energy by an electric motor.
a airplane is used for moving people across bodies of water
Ribosomes are assembled inside the nucleus.
An electrical circuit is a circuitous path of wire and devices.
Having what things has a positive impact on an organism 's health?
What object can prevent harm to humans?
what does reducing the resources needed to make something do?
Instead, trees use a method called osmosis to force water upwards.
Weathering means breaking down what from larger whole into smaller pieces by weather?
Sharpening an object changes its what?
Insects, bats, birds, and other animals serve as pollinators.
Clean water is also essential to aquatic life.
How does glucose cause food to taste?
crossing two living things with recessive traits causes their offspring to have that recessive trait
what do stems hold in plants?
Vegetation will wither and die if it doesn't get enough what?
Staying warm has a positive impact on an animal's chances to:
What can help plants grow?
What contains the instructions for the proteins?
Plants wither and die for lack of rain.
Saguaro cactus grow very slowly.
Thyroid hormone is made by the thyroid gland.
What is an example of a tetrapod vertebrate that produces amniotic eggs.
clear weather leads to what conditions
Tactile sense is our ability to learn from our environment through our sense of touch.
An acid is defined as a compound which can donate a proton .
What creates sounds?
Infectious diseases and diseases of malnutrition are prevalent.
What causes an object to lose energy?
what were formed by rock folding?
What can smoking tobacco cause?
What do animals utilize to localize sound?
Life in a volcanic environment can nevertheless be treacherous for animals.
Some what form genetic materials in the soil and water
When the river is full, it floods into the flood plain and leaves behind fertile soil.
Abundant waters call for stories of travel and trade, and protecting ships from dangers.
when fertilization occurs, what swims to an egg inside an archegonium?
Burrows dug by badgers are also important in many areas.
wind causes erosion
What causes hurricanes on the Earth's surface?
Movement causes the temperature of an object to what?
What are born with fur that grows thicker for warmth in winter?
Female gametophytes produce eggs inside the ovaries of flowers.
Killing means death.
Humans can produce.
What happens to metal when heat passes through it?
Unwanted sound is noise .
Weight is a product of gravity and mass.
what breaking through rain comes after a storm
What grows into the soil to absorb water and minerals? 
Evolution occurs in response to what in life?
Which of the following is sometimes  used to indirectly heat buildings?
Pipes can burst because at low temperatures, water does what?
Biological evolution is a change in the genetic characteristics of a population over time.
Transportation technology is built around the vehicle.
When oxygen level decreases, dilatation of the blood vessels occurs.
What has a positive impact on an ecosystem?
What causes an objects to lose energy?
Since when have mushrooms been eaten?
Anti-transpirants are chemicals designed to reduce transpiration.
hunting can cause what to happen to an animal species
Energy enters what in the form of sunlight or chemical compounds.
Movement is based on the contraction of muscles.
What lacks regions that do not code for proteins?
You cannot have matter in a plasma state without what?
Arthropods do everything with legs or modified legs.
Competition may cause animals to do what with other animals of their species?
Fog is formed when
Because of the tilt of the earth, the suns rays are strongest near the equator.
Ethologists usually study how animals behave around what?
Drought causes famine, which contributes to decentralization and unrest.
what helps absorb sugar from the blood?
Houses have disappeared because of what?
Type of Rocks Salt, quartz and basalt are decent types of aquarium rocks.
What happens before the rigid structure that surrounds the plant cell dilates?
heat causes
Competition between male animals is common in nature.
well-drained soil has a positive impact on a plant 's what growth in that soil
What do electric fans cool?
What causes a chemical reaction in an egg?
Each level on the pyramid represents a trophic level.
What lacks a uterus and vagina?
Lymphocytes are the key cells involved in the immune response.
Adult spiny skinned animals found only in marine environments have what?
a connection is between the eye and what type of  feet in echinoderms
Gourdin soils have slow permeability.
Rainforests are destroyed by logging and all of the trees are cut down.
What do trees have that insulates?
What are the units of basic information on chromosomes?
What is the speed of the change in the characteristics of living things over time?
What is energy used for in architects' creations?
What can change shape from smooth into compacted by physical force?
Coccolithophorids are members of the Algae.
On Earth, rocks are weathered by wind and water, creating soil and sand.
Animals that sleep through the winter are said to hibernate.
What does changes in the structure of the Y chromosome do?
Lung cancer continues to kill, despite modern therapies.
he change from one species to another occurs over geologic time above the level of what?
wind causes what kind of process in the soil
Plants and animals are organisms.
What is converted by a photovoltaic array?
If it's too cold, some plants freeze and die.
Sperm and egg nuclei combine to form the diploid zygotic nucleus 2.
What specialist can treat the negative impact of mold spores on lungs?
Jet airplanes burn fuel throughout the flight to overcome air resistance.
What effects can flowerless plants growing in clumps have on their environment?
What aspect of light changes when it enters water?
Macroevolution is said to be the change from one species to another.
Asteroids are typically made of rock or iron.
What protects animals in the event of a hurricane?
And in the winter the nights are long and dark.
What uses organic compounds from dead organisms?
Something that has permeable skin that easily absorbs substances starts life where?
Fish is available in the rivers and lakes of the district in large quantities.
Variola major, the virus that causes smallpox, is considered a potential bioterrorism agent.
what is used as an energy source to electrical outlets
What is one attribute of most reptiles?
Where photosynthesis occurs in a cactus, what is stored?
What are essential for cellular respiration?
Damaged DNA might benefit from:
Seed refers to offspring, children.
If fertilization occurs, the fertilized eggs are now described as pre-embryos or zygotes.
Fermentation occurs through the action of microorganisms in the large intestine.
On the outside is a protective skin of bark made mainly of cork.
What happens when food is stored below 40 degrees?
An egg is being cooked if it is in the frying pan.
What can be inherited from the object?
Heat is essentially the source of energy.
Where does water go when it floods?
What can completing a circuit give someone?
what does a high-mass star collapsing form?
Snow falls on the _ side of the mountain range
What is produced by the human body that is ill with a fever in an attempt to cool?
Illness, aging and death are inevitable.
Crustaceans breathe what through their gills?
Soil erosion harms farm and grazing lands and increases flooding and desertification.
An organism that uses pollination as the fertilization step in sexual reproduction also performs wha
Memory cells are the basis of immunological memory.
Clouds bring rain and shade.
Most carcinogens cause cancer by producing mutations in DNA.
The tilt of Earth's axis accounts for why there are seasonal changes in (a) the hours of daylight and (b) the intensity of solar radiation at any location on Earth.
Every season changes because the temperature changes with the seasons.
Gravity pulls objects towards what?
Earthworms help soils breathe.
What is produced by alcoholic fermentation of the glucose in corn or other plants?
Chromosomes are found in the nucleus of a cell.
What do some plants need to survive?
What has a special structure for penetrating a host?
Heat is the energy of moving molecules.
what ignites easily?
Again, ejaculation is a sympathetic function.
Wind is a renewable energy source.
Genetic variation is the raw material for evolution.
Influenza is a disease caused by viruses.
Wood comes from trees.
What does HIV contain?
An insect's body consists of the head, thorax and abdomen.
During the stripping, the protective layer of inner bark is removed.
what does the skin sense?
Macroevolution, speciation in particular, is a major area of interest.
An adult is mature, fully developed.
What sort of impact does erosion have on land?
During that time the seasons change from fall to winter to spring to summer.
what is a greenhouse used to protect?
Beef jerky is what?
The most advantageous type of reproduction can be chosen when generational what is used?
Hay fever or pollen allergy is the most prevalent allergy.
Bottom line indicates at rest or sleep.
What is it called when the number of people suddenly gets smaller?
Pesticides such as DDT are also of concern.
What do most animals need to be sure they survive on the Earth?
An organism is a living thing.
Echinoderms include starfish, sea urchins, and sea cucumbers.
Electricity is usually provided by batteries or AC current.
What does friction cause a mass to lose?
Cells are the microscopic building blocks of what?
It is located in the Himalayas on the borders of Tibet and Burma .
Cilia and flagella are composed of microtubules.
Then, the stream flows into a larger body of water.
Respiration is a function of life, which means it is carried on by all living things.
Volkswagen remains the top European car brand sold in America.
Children are born with an immature immune, or defense, system.
What does heat and pressures make from dead plants?
Annelids are worms such as the familiar earthworm.
What does an engine require burning?
Gene flow occurs when individuals move into or out of a subset of a what?
What type of energy does a wind turbine use to convert wind energy?
Crystal Balls Crystal balls have special uses as ritual objects.
what part of an electric fan causes air to move?
How do humans control their body temperature?
what have sense organs to smell and taste chemicals?
heating causes the wind patterns on earth to be what?
harming an animal species has no bearing on the amount of genetic variation found within a what
a generator is used to turn water behind a what  into electrical energy
All what relies on a narrow range where biochemical reactions can be catalyze by enzymes
What does soy contain?
Inside a greenhouse, it is the glass roof that creates the warmth.
Scientists study animal behavior through which of the following?
What do birds have?
What causes good visibility?
Water vapor will condense to form clouds and precipitation will occur.
what is used with copper to produce current?
rest has a positive impact on a health
What divide more often than normal cells, and grow out of control?
Many plants depend on birds for pollination and seed dispersal.
Bows are wood, and wood breaks.
The cause of what doesn't grow by cell division?
Food is only nutritious if it is eaten.
What can cause serious problems for production agriculture?
What does not grow through cell division?
Living and surviving are the thing.
Winter is snow, winter is Christmas.
Organisms cluster around vents found in the same place as what?
What instrument measures in grams?
When they mate with females, no offspring are produced.
Negative charges are attracted to positive charges.
Duracell batteries now come with a tester built into the package.
A planet rotating causes
When fish convert oxygen in water to oxygen in blood this is called?
Where are the structures where proteins are made located on?
Flooding is problematic because it causes erosion problems.
What does the hemisphere have to be tilted away from to receive less sunlight?
Animals are wild and can be dangerous.
Additional track lighting brightens the overall space.
Proteins are an essential nutrient for heterotrophs .
Destruction of an animal's home causes animals to move to what?
Animals that reproduce sexually produce sex cells, or gametes.
Fan-shaped deposits of sediment form where?
Veins carry blood to our heart.
Sediment Exposed soil is susceptible to erosion by wind and rain.
what can cause harm to humans?
Invertebrates have no backbone.
Mutations are accidental alterations of the genetic code in a cell.
What can keep water vapor out of the atmosphere?
Most pituitary hormones control other glands that secrete hormones into the what
What do amphibians easily absorb?
Some precipitation that falls on land may soak into the ground, becoming groundwater.
Smoke is a product of what being burned?
What powers sweat?
What is an example of a tetrapod vertebrate?
what does having no natural predators increase?
Gymnosperms are the most ancient seed plants.
Food consists of organic molecules that store energy in what?
Forest communities influence their climate and their soil.
Any chemical splash in the eye can be dangerous.
TRH stimulates the pituitary gland to produce
Lipids Lipids are major components of cell membranes.
Death, and the process of dying, is the final phase of life.
What can cause seismic vibrations, which are triggering mechanisms?
What can form a black hole if it collapses?
Recycling also saves energy.
a long tail can be used to move through water by an animal
Games are for fun, to play, and the folks there are a bunch of fun.
Pulped wood is used to make paper.
Inner ear problems can affect balance.
How can bulbs in a pot be protected from cold damage?
Cell division is relatively slow and requires a lot of energy.
Cars have V-8 engines and are functional.
What uses lipids to store energy?
Microbes are also called microorganisms.
_ is how organisms grow and repair themselves.
What can cause a  more powerful reaction?
Severe droughts may cause 
Who do lions hunt for?
what produces amniotic eggs?
What can change atmospheric nitrogen into a form used by plants?
DNA contains genetic instructions for proteins, which is a product of what?
What can be used to measure mass?
heavy rains cause waters to what?
what females lack a uterus and vagina?
What is a cause of deposition of sediment to the earth?
what can be used for detecting texture?
a flashlight requires a source of electricity to produce light
Which of the following can cause cancer?
Earthquake tremors and volcanic activity are frequent.
Moist air is forced up the mountains bringing both cloud and precipitation to the windward side.
 _can cause evolution
mosquitoes can do what with microorganisms
Physiologically, ants leave a trail of pheromones, which other ants then follow.
Good soil grows good plants.
what do some plants use a stem to store?
Primary producers convert solar energy into chemical energy.
what can an atom be?
What can lead to the formation of multicellular embryo in venter?
scraping oneself on a contaminated object may cause
Floods are the most common natural disaster.
Climate can be annalyzed with
What can increase how fast an object is moving?
what is a stationary object?
If seeds stick to a what then that seed will be transported by the animal
What type of material is a fossil formed?
Ribosomes are _.
electrical current running through a wire causes that wire to heat up
Animals may compete for territory, water, food, or mates.
Results can be damaging or disastrous.
Electrical engineers work on power plants, computers, and other electrical devices.
what is controlled between organisms and the atmosphere?
Smoking will decrease the flow of what in the body?
What can change the remains of prehistoric living things into natural gas?
What does the light on the moon come from?
dryness can do what to chemical weathering
Plastic bags are made from non-renewable petroleum resources.
Gill slits form gills in fish.
Most mutations are beneficial to the organism.
Goldenrod is a plant that generates activity.
Behaviorally, aggression is any behavior whose intent is to intimidate or harm another animal.
what causes food to taste sweet?
Algae have varied life cycles.
Bacteria resistant plastics inhibit the growth of bacteria and molds.
Where is water stored in a plant?
plant reproduction often requires pollen
Roots gather plant nutrients.
Leaves are covered with what, which is used to store water in plants?
Excessive reliance on pesticides can kill friendly insects and predators.
Moose what happens around autumn
Marine debris is a worldwide problem.
what does water vapor condensing in the clouds cause?
How can you feel better when you're too warm?
Fossil fuels are considered non-renewable.
What does a diaphragm help a dolphin do?
What are plants sensitive to?
Pollution is anything that spoils the environment.
what keeps plants warm?
The maglev trains are pushed and speeded up by the fact that like poles attract and unlike poles repel.
what is a disease in which cells divide out of control?
What affects the environment negatively?
Secondary meristems develop after primary meristems.
Large amounts of nitrogen are found naturally in the air and soil, and in living organisms.
What does the base of the food chain provide food for?
Flood plains are generally marshy.
Fire is as elemental a part of the ecosystem as rain.
Exercise increases muscle strength and flexibility.
Each living thing, animal or plant, consists of living cells.
recycling has a positive impact on the environment
Behaviors that improve fitness improve through what
Coral Reefs Coral reefs are the jungles of the sea.
Major plant nutrients are phosphorus and nitrogen.
If a planet cannot sustain life, then the planet may be too close to what?
What sense differences in temperature or pain?
Water is the most important nutrient for animals and humans.
Sexual reproduction increases what potential?
An electric current is then used to burn the tumor away.
what can be used to kill existing microorganisms in food?
Kids are fascinated with airplanes.
Why do some animals have hair that grows longer during the winter?
what does smoking accelerate?
All dogs require what to move?
a greenhouse is used to protect plants from the cold
Fertilization of what leads to formation of multicellular embryo in venter
If there is enough moisture in the clouds, rain is produced.
Canyon formed as a consequence of river erosion.
Crossing two living things with blue eyes causes their offspring to have what?
Testicles are male reproductive organs.
Where do corals form large colonies?
what use pheromones in urine to maintain their territory?
Modern examples are jellyfish, flat worms, and annelid worms.
What can have a negative impact on the body?
What causes seasons to change?
Seasons cause change to what of animals?
What has a positive impact on a human's health?
Constraints The heating coils in the toaster require 120 VAC at about 10 amps.
Breast cancer kills.
Famines occur when there is a general shortage of food.
Female gametophytes remain unisexual.
What can cause food poisoning?
Flowers are beautiful kinds of plants.
what kind of beads are formed by their vapor condensing?
What is a biomass' position in the food chain called?
What do living things need?
Waves can be created at the boundary between fluids of different densities.
Macroevolution above the level of the species happens over what
Pesticides kill insects and disease pathogens.
Organells found in the cells of plants and algae enable many things, including:
Where is DNA found in?
Transportation Transportation is by truck and raft.
Many zooplankton are crustaceans.
Earthworm burrows help aerate soil, which is also good for plants.
What has a negative impact on forests?
Another important polysaccharide is cellulose.
What grow in width and length.?
what requires great amounts of water to survive
Mammals are also warm-blooded and are covered with hair or fur.
Rainfall is just one form of precipitation.
What by predators cause porcupines to extend their quills?
Botulism is food poisoning produced by a bacteria.
Essentially, a black hole is a gravity drain.
Turbines are usually made with a series of curved vanes on a central rotating spindle.
what has a nervous system?
What substance gives animals the power of movement?
What can move through water?
Heat is caused by molecules moving.
if all members of a species cannot produce offspring it affect
A flower's purpose is to be what?
Plants use the light energy to grow.
What do ants communicate with?
All plants are of bush type.
where are the small organelles that make protein get put together?
Flowers are the sex organs of certain plants and hold the male and female gamete producing systems.
What kind of circulatory system do arthropods have?
what are adult sponges?
Melting is the change of phase from a solid to a liquid.
African Elephants are the biggest land animals.
What happen in animals' home area that can result in animals moving to another area?
Pesticides also kill beneficial insects that pollinate flowers and prey upon harmful insects.
When it's warm outside, both plants and pests grow faster.
What is a natural part of aging?
What can movement of an air mass cause?
And if the damaged DNA is duplicated, it causes mutation.
Growth is the process by which the size of a tissue gets bigger.
The Earth revolving around the Sun causes
When a hemisphere is tilted away from the sun, that hemisphere will have what?
The environment is polluted when what is emitted?
an energy source used by devices moves well through what?
When does water freeze into ice?
An electric field is created by voltage.
If _ of a water animal or plant are found in a place then that place used to be cove
What is the initial cause of black holes?
What in an egg causes protein to become rough and rubbery?
Scraping oneself on a contaminated object may cause 
A what is used to keep food warm or to heat it up?
Faults, cracks in the Earth's crust, produce earthquakes when they move or slip.
Biomass is the total mass of organisms on a level such as what
Changing the structure of a chromosome can be what to an organsim?
Legumes are typical of that type of plant.
Recovery takes time, rest, and good nutrition.
Copulation is generally preceded by what?
Catabolism is the breaking down of food.
Radiant heat is the way the sun heats the planet.
For example, female birds secrete estrogen in response to the courtship of their male mates.
Endoplasmic reticulum are what attached to structures in the cytoplasm where proteins are made?
Impurities like salts would also help by lowering the melting point.
Some characteristics are recessive, for example blue eyes.
What texture is collagen?
Meiosis, on the other hand, is a two stage process, ultimately producing four cells.
Time is movement, the motion of the planet in its rotation and its movement around the sun.
First, overcoming inertia to move forward is difficult.
what are not visible?
What do you add to decrease the melting point of a liquid?
what type of skin easily absorbs air to breathe through
What can happen when menstruation stops?
What can affect the structures in the cytoplasm where proteins are made/
What can be used for cooking food?
What will bears do if the amount of available food and water decreases?
After fertilization and undergoing cell division a gamete becomes a(n)?
Hydrogen bonds cause what to expand when it freezes?
Mushrooms are a fungus and have no chlorophyll.
Annelids have the amazing capacity to regrow segments that break off.
DNA is formed when many what bind together? 
Female monotremes reproduce by laying eggs and have no what?
What can amphibians permeable skin do?
what are antigens?
Evaporation can be used to move a solvent apart from:
An intense bright light produces a glare.
Arteries turn into smaller arteries called arterioles.
Because of this tilt, the northern hemisphere receives less direct sunlight (creating winter) while the southern hemisphere receives more direct sunlight (creating summer).
How do living things have children?
Centrioles participate in cell division.
Lions are also pack animals with fairly large prides of up to twenty.
what can preventing the transfer of cause the body to keep warm in an organism?
Leukemias are cancers of the blood.
What helps cells survive?
Natural gas is the cleanest of the fossil fuels.
What's one common unit for measuring the length of an object?
What is length measured in?
What is a basis for natural selection?
Caverns Secrets are hidden in caves.
What from burning coal and oil dissolving in water in the atmosphere causes acid rain?
Where can antigens be found?
What secrete antibodies?
What does blowing into a whistle cause?
Sperms swim with their tails.
Mulberry trees are deciduous.
Animals require eating plants to do what?
Flamingos are funny looking birds.
What in the scalp is especially important in preventing heat loss from the body?
What are flower cell walls made of?
Plants use cellulose for their cell walls.
San Francisco for its cultural tolerance and frequent fog.
What can be deceptive?
Unequal absorption of radiation causes unequal heating of the earth's surface.
Iron oxidation in granite is _.
a thermal conductor can be used to change the what of water
What can lasers be used for?
Heating a liquid can cause what?
Illness is an imbalance in homeostasis.
Besides, evolution means stronger members of the species survive.
Plants are the primary producers on earth.
what size are lymphocytes?
More than any other season, summer is a time of quick-changing weather patterns.
What is a reason to work with used materials during manufacturing?
An erupting volcano emits sulfur dioxide.
where do electrons separate?
What means that rocks are eroded down again?
Mechanical energy puts things in motion.
Lack of salvia hinders digestion.
What decreases manual dexterity?
How do aquatic animals get oxygen?
Protists Protists are single-celled organisms.
Rejection is a normal reaction of the body to a foreign object.
Blood flows to the viscera, organs and tissues, for growth and metabolism.
Crocodiles swim mostly with their tails.
Survival is the continuance of individual and species life.
Insect repellents are used against flea bites.
Plasma cells are activated B cells that secrete antibodies.
Examples of tissues are muscle tissue or nerve tissue.
Ecosystems are living communities.
What can chemical splashing can cause harm to?
Previously shaded areas now have sunlight available when what happens?
What generally has a negative impact on the environment?
Sounds are caused by vibrational energy.
Migrant birds leave.
What can chordates go through?
What uses semiochemicals in urine to mark territory?
what can infection or injury of the lungs result in?
Collagen tissue is made by collagen fibers connected by bridges.
Cell division is by mitosis .
The ground shakes as a result of the movement of what?
When an item is made of a material, what does it have of that material?
Most insects have a what?
What happens when a cucumber touches a cabbage?
What property of a substance changes when it is frozen?
what can abnormal cells do uncontrollably?
The digestive system breaks food down into what for the body?
Phase changes do not change
Fruits develop from the ovary of the flower.
What do vertebrate chordates have?
Age of young trees is estimated from both trunk circumference and tree height.
What protects internal organs?
An organism needs what to grow?
Common symptoms of dehydration are thirst, fatigue, headache, dizziness and dark, scant urine.
What can an electric circuit do if it is working properly?
What does the human immunodeficiency virus destroy?
what can put antibodies in body fluids?
Adding what decreases the metling point of a liquid?
Which are muscles?
All animals are heterotrophic.
What wets the skin, and when it evaporates, cools the body?
What can happen when menstruation stops occurring?
if an animal sweats then that animal 's bodily water decreases
what does a firecracker convert chemical energy into?
What type of trunk does evergreen usually have?
Several freshwater lakes are nearby.
using a gasoline engine requires what?
adding salt to a liquid decreases the melting point of that liquid
Phase changing is important for transferring energy in the atmosphere.
what do viruses live inside the cells of?
Energy used for heating is the single most commonly used form of energy worldwide.
Because food contains energy.
Matter exists in a solid, liquid or gas state and can change forms.
_ have motility
proteins foreign to the body can be found where?
what reproduces sexually?
Only as long as there are batteries in the flashlight, the flashlight will function.
For most purposes, Newton's law of gravity is extremely accurate.
Diatomes are a type of single celled algae.
What are metals good at?
What is pressed against when mammals breathe?
Ketones are exhaled and excreted in urine.
evaporation can be used for separating a solute from a solvent in a solution
condensation causes clouds to form
Leaves can keep animals warm.
Human embryos are fully human.
Evaporation cools the skin and thereby reduces body temperature.
For exercise, moderate exercise such as walking is recommended.
Hypothermia occurs when the body loses heat at a faster rate then it can be produced.
Ants are social insects.
what can be used to feel heat and pressure on the skin?
the structural and functional units of the kidneys consist of vascular and tubular what?
what do astronomers get excited about?
What do mammals use to conserve body heat?
if a planet becomes too hot then that planet cannot sustain life
For instance, the normal pH of human blood is maintained at 7.4.
What do all animals do? 
Mammals excrete urea in the watery form of urine .
Copper and aluminum are both attracted and repelled by magnets.
Temperatures go from warm to hot.
Animal and plant fossils are located where?
What spread by wind has a negative impact on the respiratory system?
What can planting trees reduce?
Heat conduction in rocks is very slow.
Sasquatches are obviously Earth-type animals.
Applying a force in the same direction an object is moving will cause what?
What is formed by sediment being deposited at its mouth by water fanning out?
What occurs when substances react with one another?
some mechanoreceptors sense what in temperature?
Fats Fats provide energy.
An infection is an illness caused by the invasion of a virus or microorganism.
What in the Earth's crust causes earthquakes?
What has a negative impact on people, animals and plants?
When the wiring is finished, they test the circuits for proper connections.
A prehistoric shark tooth found discovered high in the mountains likely indicates what?
what are usually larger than small water crossings?
What is a result of when the cell cycle is no longer regulated?
Condensing causes
microorganisms  can cause a what of illnesses?
Microspores develop into female gametophyte that produces egg in archegonium.
Theme deals with the sinking of the Titanic.
Wells are drilled into groundwater and springs are fed by groundwater.
What requires investment, seed mass, size and dispersal?
Heat and pain may be felt on the skin because of what?
Examples are Napa Valley and Sonoma Valley.
gases from burning coal and oil dissolving in water can harm what?
Viruses Viruses are the smallest agents of disease.
What do most people need at least a little of every few days to survive?
If an asteroid is made of a material then what does the asteroid have?
Fossils are always bones.
Clams and oysters are examples of bivalves.
animals require water for survival
What is produced by leaf cells as a carbohydrate by producers?
What is a positive effect of plant needs for water and minerals from soil?
What can cause the immune system to not work properly?
Which are endothermic tetrapod vertebrates?
What can have a negative impact on an organism?
Estrogens are female sex hormones.
Pheromones are stinky chemicals excreted from glands throughout the ants body.
How does a gelatinous coating help seeds?
What has a tail?
Introns are regions that do not code for proteins.
Inherited characteristics are passed on by our genes.
What can occur in animals after a fire?
increasing heat causes thermal expansion
To cut down a tree is like destroying a life.
Some of the best work in ecology has been done on small fresh water pond ecosystems.
Loose dirt, or sediments, from plowed fields is also a form of agricultural pollution.
an automobile engine transforms chemical energy into mechanical energy
Streams A stream is a sequence of characters.
Thread-like nerves can sense pain, touch, temperature and pressure.
All of the chordates have elongated bilaterally symmetrical bodies.
What causes holes in the ozone?
What type of energy do plants require to grow?
The change of the Earth's distance from the sun causes the amount of what to decrease?
Objects An object can be one of several things.
What release oxygen during the day but not at night?
What can water cause?
What will happen to a badge in the sun?
Insulin, a hormone produced by the pancreas, helps glucose in the bloodstream.
Koalas have no natural predators.
Rest can include sleep as well as sitting and resting.
Common fossils include plant fossils like ferns.
oval, unicellular fungi reproduce asexually by what?
What happens when faults move?
What is it called when a piece of material carries energy current.
Macroevolution is more than repeated rounds of microevolution.
It's sulfur dioxide (SO2).
What depends on the climate in an area?
Endocrine hormones travel throughout the body in the blood.
Scorpions are very distinctive arthropods.
Birds do what for survival?
DNA can reproduce itself.
what causes direct damage to the lungs?
Antigens prompt the body to produce antibodies.
What can be used for communication by animals?
Lung injuries are treated with bronchodilatory treatment.
What forms secondary vascular tissues and bark?
True influenza is caused by one of the influenza viruses.
Coal-fired electric generation is a low cost source of electricity.
Insects may live in large colonies and have complex social behaviors.
How can you measure a shadow?
Streptococcal pneumonia is caused by the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae.
What are the form of the genetic material of a cell during mitosis?
If the pressure is reduced, the boiling point is lowered.
Motion sickness is related to our sense of balance.
What is life impossible without?
Ozone depletion results in radiation levels that are highest when?
Metals conduct heat and electricity easily.
Cars can kill people or they can transport people.
What is required for reproduction in cranberry plants?
what are bones kept healthy by?
If a human ovum is fertilized, a zygote is formed.
Sandstone, shale, and limestone are sedimentary rocks.
the flow of current in what is moved up and down?
Most people can survive only a few days without water.
what mostly have a more complex nervous system?
What do some ovum require to survive?
What can lead to cancer in genes that control the cell cycle?
What tastes sweet due to sugar?
Ball is hit with bat by batter.
Organic matter is the plant and animal residue in the soil at various stages of decomposition.
What is an analogue to fog?
Which of these produces hydropower?
Tides A tide is vertical movement of water.
Vascular cambium is a primary meristem.
What converts nitrogen for flowers?
what are frightened by noise?
Cells pretty much al share this one characteristic:
Organisms that live in the ocean are adapted to
Some animals communicate through what?
What does friction cause things to lose?
During the Northern Hemisphere summer, the Northern Hemisphere is tilted toward the sun.
Salt is used as a deicer because it lowers the freezing point of water.
For flowering plants, the answer is the Flower.
What is the name of something some animals use to conserve water and elminate waste?
what do cells do with glucose?
What does electricity help humans do?
Plants have chlorophyll and an alternation of generations .
Most molecules are proteins or nucleic acids.
Hospitals incorporate most types of technical systems encountered in other types of buildings.
All reptiles produce eggs with a waterproof shell full of amniotic fluid.
Birch trees are deciduous and the wood burns hot and fast, as if soaked with oil or kerosene.
what requires photosynthesis to grow?
What can cause people to crash their car?
Which of the following would animals use to store energy?
When the glacier moves into warmer areas the ice melts and sediments are deposited.
Asexual reproduction is by spores produced in stalked sporangia .
excessive cooling of body heat is accompanied with what
What is generally true about blood going away from the heart?
What is created when a doorbell is pressed?
Mammals include dogs, cats, and horses.
the mix of living organisms generally does what from the poles to the equator?
Breathing masks are used to keep harmful particles from entering the mouth and the what?
A cactus stem stores what?
Cells produce more cells by dividing into two cells.
Fresh meat is a perishable food.
what do flower petals attract?
Passive solar thermal energy involves heating buildings using direct sunlight.
Most sponges are sessile.
Ginkgo biloba is deciduous.
What live in social groups called prides?
Liquid propane is used to heat hot air balloons.
conduction is increased with what?
Body position is critical.
What can cause light to be broken into many pieces?
what have a backbone?
Earth's Atmosphere Earth's atmosphere is the layer of gasses that surrounds the earth.
Incandescent bulbs convert electricity into what in the electric field?
What is a main component of a virus?
What is passed up a chain or web from lower to higher trophic level?
Another common snail is the decollate snail.
Like magnet poles push away or repel each other.
Coins are made by mint of metal.
What does a lantern use a source of electricity for?
condensing means changing from a gas into a liquid by reducing heat energy
What was formed by rock folding?
Because of electrical resistance, the passage of electric current through wire produces heat.
Condensation is the opposite of evaporation.
what will die if they become too cold?
Therapeutic touch can activate the clients inherent healing ability.
Of the following items, the most likely to cause a car accidents is
cells can be damaged when they lose their ability to what
New resources required for creation can be reduced through:
What has a circulatory system with one or two hearts that pump blood?
Soil Erosion Rain forests help to prevent soil erosion and water pollution .
Because their coat is black, they absorb sunlight and overheat very quickly.
What requires heat to survive?
Poisoning is similar to paralytic shellfish poisoning .
Dew Droplets of water deposited when air cools and the water vapor in it condenses.
androgens and what kind of messengers?
What is lung cancer most often caused by?
What has bodies that are segmented?
What do aquatic animals need to survive?
How is survival ensured around hydrothermal vents?
Manual dexterity and physical stamina are vital.
cytokenisis is the final stage of cell division in what?
Humidity is moisture in the air.
animals replenish their bodily water after a signal that it's time to what?
What provides food and shelter to many fish?
what does the Earth being tilted on its rotating axis cause?
Who can treat issues caused by mold spores?
Mechanical Energy- Mechanical energy is the energy of moving objects.
What may be stored in sedimentary rock for millions of years.
What do mutations do to DNA?
What may change the structure of a nucleotide?
Animals are known as consumers.
Some of the more common parasites are various types of 'worms'.
Humans have bodies.
Birds waste a lot of body heat trying to keep warm in exposed areas.
Oil and water are two such liquids.
What type of environment is a cacti adapted to?
A what is used for seeing in the dark?
Heavy rain or thunder storms usually cause flash floods.
All smoke is harmful to the respiratory system.
The trcipes femoris is used to move what?
Crohn's disease is a lifelong disease.
The average weather in an area during an era is called:
High heat causes the protein in eggs to become tough and rubbery.
Plants that survive are adapted for that environment.
Rain is also known as precipitation.
Granite, on the other hand, is an intrusive igneous rock.
Too much heating of the wire creates a fire hazard.
what reproduces by laying eggs?
Water consists of H2O, etc.
What can distracted driving cause?
what are gases from burning coal and oil dissolving in water in the atmosphere?
What can cause an animal to leave an environment?
What can an animal do to cool themselves down?
Soil Biodiversity Soil biodiversity reflects the mix of living organisms in the soil.
Like all living things, human beings are affected by their environment.
Plants require what for life-long learning?
Speciation events are thus examples of macroevolution.
Autumn is a season of transistion as the warm summer days fade giving way to cooler weather.
Monkeys are wild animals.
Succulents, bromeliads and cacti are xerophytes.
Unequal heating of the Earth's surface by the Sun causes ocean circulation and what?
Fungi are the only organism that can decompose what?
Lymphocytes are B cells, T cells and NK cells.
What has a backbone?
what does skin protect from?
What has electrical current running through it when working properly?
Loams are the best soil type.
What often precedes mating?
Bees are the main pollinator.
What does moving into or out of a population affect?
When air masses meet, fronts are formed.
Sand is an example of a clastic sediment.
Protective, supportive environments such as shelters are needed.
Acid rain can be especially harmful to plants and animals.
Folding A fold is a bend in the rock layers.
Landfills are a designated place where garbage is buried underground.
What kind of feet do echinoids have?
What do ants use to communicate with the colony?
what are oncogenic viruses linked to?
Hay fever is caused by 
Temperature and pressure receptors in most animals are located:
Moulds, yeasts, rusts, smuts, mildews, and mushrooms are all types of fungi.
Vinegar and baking soda, when mixed together, react chemically to create carbon dioxide gas.
Tides also cause currents.
Sperm swim to an egg inside a what?
what can be planted to have a positive impact on the ecosystem?
In order to attract flies, wasps, and bees, what does a flower employ?
Heat is molecular kinetic energy.
acid rain is caused by burning what?
Ribosomes are larger and distinct from the ribosomes found in prokaryotes.
Wood was made from trees, and the wood was used in many different ways.
What do adult sponges produce?
Bulbs produce electrical energy to what?
Too much ultraviolet energy may cause skin cancer.
what may have its leaf size increase as it grows?
Wildlife Habitat the native environment of an animal.
Rivers drain into the Pacific Ocean.
What is likely to exert mutually on an object, making the object remain stationary?
Pigeons find one mate then mate for life.
What do animals do in the winter?
What  can be used for communication by animals?
Gasoline is extremely flammable and can explode and burn if ignited.
What do pathogens do to our body?
Food consists of organic molecules that store energy in their chemical bonds.
What can cause deforestation?
Protect cold-sensitive plants from winter wind.
Plant cells are encased by a cell wall.
Behind the head is the thorax.
What forms due to unequal heating of Earth's surface by the Sun?
a plant requires sunlight to grow
Vapor pressure is caused when
Body functions are interrelated.
The ability of organisms to do what changes over time?
What does does the gravitational pull of the Moon on Earth's oceans cause?
Like coal, petroleum is a fossil fuel.
Playing is one way organisms that have ingestive metabolism learn how to what?
Snakes are limbless reptiles.
What is an example of a petrochemical?
Where can peat, buried under soil and mud and through extreme heat and pressure, change into coal?
What helps producers make food?
What are organisms that make food for themselves and other organisms?
Ice is frozen water.
DNA is found where in a cell?
Frogs, toads and salamanders are amphibians.
What feeds on nonliving organic matter?
Azathioprine interferes with DNA and RNA synthesis.
the body is what after evaporation, when wet skin is hot and red?
Combustion is never complete in gasoline and diesel engines.
what uses saturated fatty acids to store energy?
What can be depleted of nutrients?
What is found in chromosomes?
DNA acts as the store of genetic information.
When does the northern hemisphere experience cooler temperatures?
Animal is common to many species.
Irradiating food can be used to kill what in the food?
Specific gravity is related to density.
Annelids have closed circulatory systems.
Yoga is a gentle form of exercise.
Grapevines are woody deciduous plants.
what directs current?
What does glass do to light?
harming an animal species has a negative impact on the population size of that species
Nuclear power plants do what to greenhouse gases?
What converts food into electrical energy?
Sperm nuclei are released into the archegonium.
Forest is largely pine trees.
Evolution Evolution means change over time.
How do heterotrophs live?
What affect small organelles where proteins are made?
Animals rely on what for survival?
Meristem growth occurs by the production of primordia which develop at the meristem periphery.
By October 10, the lighthouse was tilted and leaning into the sea.
what is considered to be nonliving?
Which is an invertebrate mollusk?
Effects of bottlenecks are unpredictable .
What protects creatures from harmful rain?
What is the term for illnesses that result from bacteria in food?
When iron oxidizes, it rusts.
Aerobic respiration occurs only in the presence of oxygen.
Mutations in genes that control the cell cycle are found in virtually all cancer cells.
what does the digestive system use to produce nutrients for the body?
All plants are eukaryotes.
Volcanic eruptions can cause short-term cooling of the Earth's climate.
what and excessive crop irrigation enhance negative impacts on the environment
Masses are measured by difference on a balance.
What should be done to replace body fluids?
what are the results of the faulting of rock in Earth's crust?
What causes the pull of gravity?
What do electric devices require to function?
What would remain if you were to make a pot of salt water start to steam?
what helps with the fertilization of plants?
Cells are so small that they can only be seen under a microscope.
How can mammals transport seeds?
If what is exposed to a source of heat then that conductor may become hot?
Rock debris is also know as sediment.
at least some deuterostomes use pheromones to do what?
Most people turn to a doctor when they are ill or injured.
Snow is an excellent insulating material.
What requires adding heat energy?
Behaviors that improve fitness increase through
What stimulates the pituitary gland in order to maintain structural integrity of the thyroid?
What does a platypus lack?
A mutation in the gametes of a parent can cause a new trait to appear where?
Ejaculation allows males to reproduce.
Foam type insulations require an overlay board insulation.
Refraction is the bending of light cause by a speed change when it passes through different media.
Chlorophyll is a complex molecule.
Wetlands are important habitats for animals.
Arteries carry blood away from the heart.
What eliminates wastes and excess water?
what is exerted on a kicked object?
what can breaking apart rocks cause?
Phytoplankton are bacteria and algae that use sunlight to make food.
An image is formed in the mirrors each time the light bounces, forming multiple images.
what are used to reproduce?
Why can amphibians easily absorb toxins?
Gametes then unite in fertilization and eventually become what?
What do muscles do?
when the body is hot , sweat is produced to cool the body
What are chromosomes made of?
Viruses are so small that to see them a scientist would have to use what kind of lens?
_have the amazing capacity to regrow segments that break off.
what is plasma created with?
what uses eyes for seeing by sensing light?
What are nutrients, basically?
a firecracker converts chemical energy into sound
Manatees are a migrant species.
Light enters the eye and an image is focused on the retina.
What begins evolution?
Smoking tobacco can cause what?
And, Nunes says, some drivers tend to drive faster when they're distracted.
Brakes work because friction acts against slip.
Coral reefs and shells are made of calcium carbonate.
What conserve body heat with their hair or fur?
For animals, displays of color can be viewed as:
which are required for animal survival?
pituitary hormones can be blamed for what?
what adults have radial symmetry?
What keeps warm?
What can cause objects to change shape?
Fungi have special structures for penetrating a host.
Antibodies are protein molecules.
What movement causes local changes to the condition of the atmosphere?
It is this bacteria which turns alcohol into acetic acid, the main component of vinegar.
Trees are the largest of living things.
what breathes with gills as larvae and lungs as adults?
Puffers are smooth skinned while Porcupines have the characteristic spines or quills.
What do some flowers become?
Control boxes are objects.
Heat is emitted energy.
On match easily lights any fire.
Most of the precipitation is in the form of snow.
When inactive or dormant, Dendrobiums require little or no fertilizer.
What do all vertebrates have?
Stars are on an outermost celestial sphere.
Pollution issues include toxic waste disposal.
Muscle activation is a prerequisite for muscle contraction.
What can be pushed or pulled due to force?
where are pressure receptors mainly found?
Plant reproduction is often assisted by what insect?
A hemisphere tilted toward the sun is likely to have what?
Much of the energy from a light bulb is heat.
Length indicates the buffer's size.
What is formed by breaking rock into smaller pieces?
Diversity leads to vast genetic potential.
What is distracting while driving?
what can bacteria cause people to have?
Electric power is measured in watts.
plants absorb what to produce oxygen?
Active Sonar Active sonars transmit acoustic energy and detect targets by echolocation.
What organisms are a source of food for many species of fish?
gas does what after going through a furnace into a cottage
Where does prey go to hide?
the force of water against the seed coat causes a root to emerge from a seed
Animals are organisms that have ingestive metabolism.
Most people can survive only a few days without a combination of what?
Chromosomes are located in the nucleus of a cell.
Weather changes from season to season.
Flowing water can slowly dissolve carbon in what?
using renewable resources to generate power reduces greenhouse gases
unequal heating of Earth 's surface by the Sun causes global wind patterns
Frogs are a type of reptile.
Viruses Viruses are the simplest organisms known.
Aggressive children tend to grow into aggressive adults.
Environments are animals homes.
What causes the penis to develop?
Each planet has what?
the Earth being tilted on its axis causes ones side of the Earth to receive less energy from the Sun than the other side
Allergies are a reaction of the immune system to harmful particles in the air.
Pollution One of the ways habitat is degraded is by pollution.
Some plants are extraordinarily tolerant of drought.
What regulates sugar?
Circadian rhythms People and animals are usually adapted for a daily cycle of light and dark.
Trash collectors work in all types of weather, including rain and snow.
Survival means survival of the species.
Bloom time depends on the weather.
Benzene, like ozone and particulate matter, is a nonthreshold pollutant.
Many people think that Leeuwenhoek invented the microscope.
What can be used to protect plants from the cold?
What kind of cells divide out of control?
What kind of circulatory system does a reptile have?
Many marine species are used for medical research.
What forms sandbars?
Vomiting tends to be related to food poisoning.
Everyone can have fun and play together.
Infection is what ultimately leads to death.
Children inherit from their parents.
Pollution is a damaging excess of contaminants.
What can DNA contain the instructions for?
Fossils are the preserved evidence of past life.
what falls on the windward side of the mountain range?
Gravity is a force that pulls on things.
 uncontrolled use of what for fuel has a negative impact on an ecosystem
Bacteria love a warm, moist place to grow.
What do Echinoderms lack?
Flat spots on rail car wheels cause a loud banging noise.
Michael Faraday discovered that a magnetic field can generate an electric current.
Warm air moving into an area of cold air is called a warm front .
ats and proteins can be used for energy by the cells of what?
What can fungi spores develop into without being fertilized?
Pressure affects the boiling point of a liquid.
Cells are organized into tissues, and tissues combine into what?
How is converted energy into light energy rated?
Heating is by electric convector radiators.
Most of Earth's water is salty seawater.
what do cactuses save?
how do african elephants breathe
where are vein deposits of gold and silver formed?
What can cause tsunamis when moved?
Chromosomes are the form of the genetic material during 
creating wood-free paper does not require cutting down trees
When a cancer cell divides, two new cancer cells are formed.
Cells that are homeless are called cancer cells.
what do adult sponges produce?
Furthermore, antibody levels decrease with time.
Sea sponges are animals in the Phylum Porifera.
If the community works together, it is bound to succeed.
if an object is made of a material then that object has what?
How many parts to prokaryotes divide into?
A flower 's purpose
Invertebrates Among the invertebrates, the largest number of species are insects.
During the summer the sun gets much higher and provides more direct, concentrated heating.
A mutation in the sex cells of a parent can cause a new trait to appear in the parent 's what?
an aquatic animal requires not having too much what in water?
Intelligence is primarily encoded in what?
Tapeworms Like flukes, tapeworms are also parasitic.
Aggression is the desire or intent to cause harm.
What can be checked along with nutrition and scion that can help determine health of a tree.
What is essential to all living organisms?
What is it called when two substances are dissolved?
What breathes by pulling air into the lungs?
Heat is a manifestation of energy.
What do biologists study?
What does plant and animal residue increase in soil?
Chromosomes contain genes, which code for proteins.
Fens form non-acidic peat.
Devices such as pagers and cell phones are forbidden.
Climate, on the other hand, looks at long-term averages of weather conditions.
Babies are normally delivered from the uterus through the vagina.
An egg is fertilized by sperm.
Relaxation rests the body and meditation rest the mind.
Something with what sticks to the fur of an animal and is transported?
What do frogs breathe with their lungs?
What does an animal need for survival?
What can be done to a neutral atom to make positive charges attractive to it?
an egg requires warmth to survive
What have humans collected and grown for thousands of years?
What do flowers use to attract pollinators? 
Paper is then crumpled into the general shape and tied.
Man is a living being or organism.
What can an insect to do cause harm to people?
Water density decreases with temperature and increases with salt content.
And oxygen, O2, is the molecule to do it.
what have segmented bodies?
Pesticide use requires disposal of either excess pesticides or empty pesticide containers.
What causes spring, summer, autumn, and winter?
Jupiter's mass is much greater than all the other planets together.
Cell division produces daughter cells of equal size.
flowing from cold to warm can change the state of what?
E ndoplasmic reticulum are membranes attached to ribosomes.
Girls and boys residences are separate and far apart.
Adjusts controls to regulate temperature and humidity of animals' quarters.
Anchors plants, absorbs water and minerals.
Functional proteins are called enzymes .
Fish gills take oxygen from the water as it passes over the gills.
What is something missing in starfish?
Pheromones are subtle scents emitted by animals in mating season.
What makes the pupils sensitive?
What does DDT do to insects?
All hawks are birds.
What striking a molecule can cause sound?
Fanning a flame can help it do what?
What in soil is vital for healthy roots?
What produces rays?
What has woody stems covered with bark?
What do cold fronts cause?
Evaporation is the change of state from a liquid to a gas.
Some more recent hurricanes are Hurricane Andrew and Hurricane Fran.
Hormones control many cell activities, so they are very important for what?
What converts electrical energy into light energy when it is turned on?
a stove is used for cooking by generating heat
gravity pulls objects towards planets
Animals with backbones are called vertebrates.
Airplanes create thrust using propellers, jet engines , or rockets .
Cellophane or paper crumpled in ball sizes.
A stove is used for cooking by heating the what?
Insects have six legs.
All humans are mammals.
What can be used by an animal to keep warm?
Where part of a plant does the fruit come from?
What are capable of dividing into two parts?
What is one thing fish cannot make?
Extremely high winds can cause extensive damage.
Chlorophyll gives plants a green color.
The inner planet is so close to its star that it's too hot.
Antibodies bound to antigen are then measured by RCAT-based amplification of the associated DNA tag.
Every living thing, animal and plant, are given a classification.
What do flames convert chemical energy into?
What do producers use with inorganic chemicals to make food?
loud noises can cause hamsters to deliver quite a what?
Crumple means_  increases by physical force.
what would be protected from a wild fire?
Grain is the seed portion of the plants.
Nutrient levels are referred to as trophic status.
In what way does a catalyst help in chemical reactions?
Bog birch is a deciduous shrub.
What can be pushed together to form an earthquake?
What happens when an animal comes in contact with an electric fence?
What does dropping an object into liquid cause?
Tapeworms have no digestive system and consist primarily of a reproductive system.
What is one way animals learn to behave?
Sandy soil feels gritty and loose.
Breathing is when a gill converts from oxygen in water into
Bullfrogs eat other amphibians.
Solid ice is melted into liquid water.
Snows melt and replenish the rivers and lakes.
Air pollution is created by burning.
Faculty offices are also in the building.
What is is the average number of individuals per unit of area or volume?
What kind of impact does Crohn's have on an organism?
Satellite meteorology is the measurement of weather by sensors aboard Earth-orbiting satellites.
Tobacco is most commonly smoked in cigarettes.
Belly breathing uses the diaphragm, which helps relax the lungs.
Colors of the bees also varies with the species.
What is happening inside a firecracker as it starts to go off?
Genetic diversity can be maintained in small populations by even a small amount of gene flow.
Carrots and beets what in length and width from primary and secondary meristem?
what do fish eat?
How does sweating cool the body?
Conifers are examples of gymnosperms.
This water evaporates into water vapor and rises up into the atmosphere.
June Summer Triangle Three bright stars light up the summer sky.
Cartilage cells are called chondrocytes in mature cartilage.
Insects and hummingbirds are the primary pollinators.
What can lead to the gradual burial of more sediments?
How do animals lungs help them survive?
Biodiversity increases the what of islands?
Earth orbiting the Sun causes seasons to change
Gunshots startle the quiet.
When kidney function is normal, creatinine is removed from the body by the kidneys.
What moves with long filaments?
Because of sinkholes, houses have disappeared.
What do incandescent bulbs produce as they create electricity?
What can behaviors be?
Energy from carbohydrates is converted into glucose.
What do dolphins use to store energy?
Car engines convert gasoline into what?
what can cause animals to leave an environment?
uneven heating of the Earth 's surface cause wind
An observable characteristic is called a phenotype .
Light enters the eye through an opening called the pupil.
Cold fronts bring in the rain.
Bacillus is an ancient genus of bacteria that is known to form endospores.
a plants require water for survival
Example of fungi that reproduce by fission or budding is yeast.
Temperatures vary with altitude and season.
Electricity or electrical energy, is produced at a power plant.
what increases the rate of metabolism in cells?
what do microbial fuel cells convert chemical energy into?
Glucose metabolism relates to how cells use or store glucose.
Water can easily condense on the cold end of the probe.
The decline of speed is associated with what?
For men, orgasm generally climaxes in the ejaculation of semen, which contains millions of sperm.
Amphibians also have immune cells arranged to smell and taste what?
Habitats change with the seasons.
what adapt to cold, wet weather?
Dropping an object into a lake causes what?
Endocrine glands include the pituitary, thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, pineal and thymus glands.
What is transformed through extreme heat and pressure over time?
what causes seasons?
Great egrets are heterotrophs .
What does bacteria in the soil help to prevent?
What do ancathostega have four of?
Since skin is the largest organ in the body, touch is extremely important.
what moves because of vanes rotating in an electric fan?
 _carry signals that control sexual development and reproduction
Friction is a force that dissipates energy.
A pan is used for cooking food by heating food in it on what?
Roads result in habitat loss and habitat fragmentation.
Somewhat suprisingly high mass stars live for less time than low mass stars.
What causes a rocket to move?
Unlike most mammals, female monotremes have no teats.
Diverse hydrophobic molecules may consist of what type of acids?
wind and rain cause erosion
cooking food requires adding heat energy
Mole rats live under ground and have no fur or eyes.
Combustion generates toxic fumes.
An animal requires ingestion to do what?
Low-grade anemia can develop and lead to fatigue, decreased stamina and worse.
Where are slime molds found?
a switch is used to start the flow of current in an electrical circuit
An earthquake is a sudden shaking of the ground.
If an object is black then that object absorbs all visible what?
What happens when a fuel burns incompletely?
Many broad-leaved trees are deciduous.
What is still provided, whether the style is long or a mullet?
Crumple zones and bumpers are often weaker and poorer performing than in cars.
what can some viruses do?
what have a circulatory system?
Finally, the pattern of tropical wind and ocean circulation is a key element of global circulation.
What geological formation must occur for the availability of material for silver jewelry to occur?
webbed feet are used for moving faster through water by aquatic animals
Animals require oxygen for breathing.
What measures the shaking of the ground
Water pipes can freeze and burst.
When the animals and plants die, the decomposers complete the cycle.
Perennial types are planted outside in spring.
Sheep are naturally seasonal breeders, and respond to decreasing daylight hours.
threatening behavior by predators causes a porcupine to extend its quills
What is converted to heat in a light bulb?
Yeasts are oval, unicellular fungi that reproduce by budding.
Big Trees or Little Flowers Plants are everywhere.
Most of the southwest is semi desert and very dry.
what generally increases from the poles to the equator?
What does head hair prevent the loss of?
Asexual reproduction is by fragmentation, budding, or fission.
What helps plants survive?
what does an object reflect toward the eye to be seen?
What does an engine use as liquid fuel?
Old cells have short telomeres.
Bacteria are said to be prokaryotes .
Sediment is made of rocks, dirt, and earth.
what is very deadly?
what can sunlight and rain cause?
an incandescent light bulb converts electricity into light by sending electricity through a filament
What do herbicides poison?
Wind causes a distortion of the water application pattern.
A mold spore has a negative impact on what?
What happens to the power a light bulb uses?
what do objects have?
Booster shots are needed periodically to build up the passive immunity again.
Where do flower-like animals live?
what have complex behaviors?
completing a circuit causes electricity to flow through that circuit
Endospores are a means of reproduction.
Which measuring unit might be used when using a balance?
Food is a source of energy for the body.
Mollusks are bilateraly symetrical and are protostomes.
what is it warm inside of?
Energy is transferred to an object when what happens?
what are arteries?
besides proteins, what do some viruses have an envelope of?
Vertebrates have a closed circulatory system.
First jet airplane takes flight.
All lions are animals.
What does gravitational pull of the moon cause?
what infects and destroys helper T cells?
Warm body temperature requires what?
melting is when solids are heated above their melting point
what puts children at risk?
Something that nearly all puppies and kittens have do what?
All creatures procreate via sexual reproduction.
Proteins are the building blocks of living cells.
What can be used for segregating a solute from a solvent in a solution?
What do organisms use carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen for?
What can help an animal survive?
uneven heating of the Earth 's surface causes what?
Pacinian corpuscles are pressure receptors.
Skin is hot and red, but wet with sweat.
Rocks interacting with wind over time cause what to be altered?
what will expand when heated?
Rozites caperata is the edible mushroom.
what can keep food from going bad?
what lives mainly in shallow coastal waters?
What causes sweetness in foods?
Forces A force is a push or a pull.
What helps increase flexibility and muscle tone?
If the antibodies to HIV are present, then the individual is said to be HIV positive.
Mutations in somatic cells are called somatic mutations .
how do foxes warm up?
what can be heated causing H2O to evaporate and NaCl to remain?
What converts chemical energy into light and heat energy?
And blood, blood runs like water.
what can bacteria grow on?
How can mammals generate heat?
Sea creatures encased by what reproduce sexually?
What does pressure do to the temperature of an object?
What determines the weight of an object?
Large streams are rivers .
Tectonic plates being pushed together can cause what?
what species has a negative impact on population size when they are harmed?
What involves a sperm and egg fusing to form a diploid zygote?
When wild animals no longer find their own food, they cease to be a part of the balance of nature.
what is so small it can only be seen with an electron microscope?
What group of animals do frogs belong to?
What is the primary item inside a virus?
Global warming most threatens the Earth's ability to do what?
Hepatitis B virus causes liver cancer.
what uses skin to breathe air?
Properties can be used to separate or sort a group of objects or materials.
Fatty acids are the building blocks of lipids.
Sound waves are vibrations in matter.
what can cause burns?
a plant requires nutrients to grow
What interacting with wind over long periods of time results in sand?
Australia's coral reefs, including the Great Barrier Reef, are no exception.
what does behavior intended to cause harm or pain often include?
What enables bones to perform movement?
what may competition lead to?
What can cause the body to stop functioning?
what have a complete digestive system and closed circulatory system?
Also, when they get sick, the illness can progress at much greater speed.
What is used for refracting light?
Fruit is considered edible.
Of course, ethanol is important to Iowa.
What causes sun blocking and temperature drops?
What helps species survive?
what are required for plant reproduction?
Eventually, the sinkhole collapses into cavern.
Which of the following is the fastest  that people can be moved with current technology?
what reproduces asexually?
Most sulfur dioxide comes from the combustion of oil and coal.
Nutrients are fuel for your body.
All dogs are animals .
What are generally bigger and deeper than small fresh water ecosystems?
Head hair can help prevent
What re the only organisms that can decompose biodegradable products?
Creature Comforts A habitat is an animal's home.
Abnormal cells are irregular in shape.
Fans blow directly above the oche.
What can be a disease with genetic traits?
If the wire heats up it can damage the insulation or cause a fire.
what uses webbed feet for moving faster through water?
What can change the movement of something or have it remain stationary?
Species is a group of interbreeding individuals.
What can be used to produce electricity?
Estuaries are always larger than which of the following?
Human beings are group animals.
What are single-celled organisms that lack a nucleus?
Coral reefs occur mainly as numerous patch reefs.
Just like bricks are the building blocks of a home, atoms are the building blocks of matter .
Or, pressure is force per area.
Movement of what causes local weather changes?
An ocean is a large body of water.
All temperatures are measures of heat energy.
What do gymnosperms use to reproduce?
where do many ocean organisms find food and shelter?
When are you tilted more towards the sun?
We eat and feed our body with nutrients to enable it to grow.
Viruses cause many human diseases.
Most sponges are hermaphrodites, each individual bearing both eggs and sperm.
Translation of mRNA into protein involves the interaction of the mRNA with ribosomes.
Salinity A word describing the salt content of a liquid.
Trees provide shelter and food for animals.
Many weather events involve rain.
what requires nutrients to grow and heal?
What is important for the chemical equilibrium of the body? 
what is reduced in condensation when changing from a gas into a liquid?
Folding an object causes that object to what?
what do ribosomes contain?
Brain atrophy means the brain matter has shrunk, often because brain cells are dying or dead.
What causes genetic traits to be passed down to that organism 's offspring?
Animals and plants evolve together, adapting to environmental conditions.
where do organisms cluster around hydrothermal vents?
What makes food from inorganic molecules?
Organisms that live in marine biomes must be adapted to the salt in the water.
Ribosomes are structures in the cytoplasm where proteins are made.
What is required for life?
Heterotrophs are living things that cannot make their own food.
Acceleration of an object is proportional to the force acting on that object.
Herons are an indicator species for wetland communities.
Portions of the telomeres are lost each time a cell divides.
earthquakes are caused by shifts in what?
 _ food can prevent spoilage
What or or magnifying glasses are used to see small things to make them appear bigger?
Nematodes are simple roundworms.
What destroys T lymphocytes?
what does homeostasis mediate?
Salinity refers to salts dissolved in water.
Crossing two living things with mutant traits causes their offspring to have what?
What does animal's fur keep them safe from?
All frogs are amphibians.
Bears are common but elusive animals.
Erosion and landslides are common.
All trees are in the Kingdom Plantae, the plants.
Basically, fiber is cellulose .
black objects absorb all visible what?
What do sea lions learn how to behave from?
Polyps usually reproduce by what?
what season happens before snow falls, and spring brings back the greenery
What can be used to reveal what lies hidden in darkness?
Hydrogen bonds cause water to expand when it freezes.
Biomass Organic matter, called biomass, can be burned in an incinerator to produce energy.
Condensation is the change of water vapor to a liquid.
cross-pollination increases genetic diversity
Irradiating food can do which of the following?
Drop metal objects such as golf clubs, and backpacks.
What is required for plant reproduction?
When does macroevolution over eras occur?
What are plants?
what do plasma cells secrete?
What causes water to expand as it becomes ice?
Dog aggression is any behavior meant to intimidate or harm a person or another animal.
what is used to heat a building?
a developing rattlesnake requires what to survive
What do mussels eat?
What can cause animals to leave an environment?
Anyone who looks, eventually sees.
What causes seasons?
Gymnosperms are vascular plants that produce seeds in cones.
Less travel leads to fewer car or plane emissions, and less pollution.
Chemical bonds are electrical in nature.
Cameras use batteries.
Immunization with vaccine is effective.
Growth hormone is made by the pituitary.
what has a centralized nervous system with a brain?
What forms caverns by seeping through rock and dissolving limestone?
When worldwide temperature increases, mass what occurs?
What is a process of removing wastes and excess water from the body?
what does androgen stimulate?
Organic molecules are the basic building blocks of living organisms on earth.
the Earth constantly moving then being pushed together causes what
erosion causes a river to become deeper and wider
Moisture levels before planting and flowering have the greatest impact on yield.
Whatever the cause, mass extinctions affect biological diversity profoundly.
Food irradiation offers a solution for addressing the growing concerns associated with food safety.
Protein is made from:
what is recognized as foreign to the body by the immune system?
Smoking tobacco can cause what to increase?
what is generally bigger and deeper than ponds?
What can be seen with our eyes?
Coral is the calcite shell of the coral animal.
What do tectonic plates being pushed together do?
Carbon dioxide dissolved in rainwater forms carbonic acid.
Gold and silver are valuable products.
what makes food for themselves and other organisms?
Female what produce eggs inside the ovaries of peonies?
what do insects have?
Sunlight is energy released from fusion reactions in the sun.
What is secreted by plasma cells (activated B cells) ?
what live in large colonies and have complex social relationships.
What does windpower get converted into?
Gametophytes are the parent of the baby fern.
To many people, soil is nothing but dirt.
What happens to your leg when muscle fibers shorten?
Estimating the age of trees can be used for what
Hormonal Imbalance Hormonal imbalance can cause depression.
Energy and chemical reactions Chemical reactions require energy.
What is one element used to create caves?
What does hunting do to a species?
what doesn't riding a bike cause?
How is eye color determined?
If an object is below an objects melting temperature then it is what?
Temperature follows a seasonal cycle.
Here, the lungs supply the blood with oxygen.
Air pollution raises the risk of death and disease.
What do organisms in the lowest trophic level use as food?
Estuaries display characteristics of both marine and freshwater biomes.
What does cricoid contain?
An object's color determines how much solar energy it absorbs.
Fluorescent light bulbs use half the electricity of standard bulbs.
Without light, plants die.
Some trees are maples.
Deforestation happens when people cut down forests or when trees are burned.
Cilia are structurally the same as flagella and are actually short flagella.
What uses the flow of electrons?
Freckles are an autosomal recessive trait.
What uses its sense of smell to find a mate?
where does gravity cause an object to be pulled down to?
What allows evolution to continue?
What is required to melt something?
Soon the wind blows in fresh air.
Hibernation is a dormant sleep-like state.
What is the most important product in Iowa?
Dolphins are a very unique animal.
What do bighorns' hollow hairs do?
What do mammals contain?
What type of cups accurately measure liquids?
Sun's rays are perpendicular to the equator.
Ecosystem complexity generally what from the poles to the equator
what might die if it becomes too hot?
Transpiration is the process of water loss from plants through stomata .
what can the offspring of two living things have when crossed with each other?
what do you strum to cause vibration?
Pneumonia may be caused by an infection or what?
Ice crystals resist evaporation.
Conclusions Floods and drought are realities of desert life.
The air in the greenhouse is humid.
What can be filled with precipitation that falls on land and soaks into the ground?
What causes things to die and quickly decay?
An egg or sperm with an extra chromosome or missing a chromosome is then made.
Humidity is the amount of water vapor in the air.
Urine is the liquid waste product of the body that is excreted by the urinary system.
What does a water animal need great amounts of to survive?
some soils are more sensitive than others to a lowered what
water will runoff as springs to replenish what
Biomass is the total mass of living things at each what?
Energy is pumped into the ocean by the winds and tides.
An ocean is a vast body of salt water.
What reproduces asexually?
Opposite charges repel.
Planktonic plants are called phytoplankton.
Oxygen-rich blood is carried where?
What type of environment is a bromeliad adapted to?
Snow leopards coats can be used for what?
An electric stove transforms electrical energy into what?
what are full and smooth?
On earth, plants proved to be innovative and adaptable.
Where are dinosaur remains usually found?
Why can't Venus sustain life?
Mammals can also generate little bursts of heat using natural body reflexes to what?
Salamanders rely on their extraordinary sense of smell to find prey.
Blowing on a fire increases what near a fire?
What can decrease in an environment, and may cause animals to leave?
Otters fur is the thickest fur of any animal.
Sulfur in the coal becomes sulfur dioxide when burned.
Metabolic rate is the rate at which food is burned for energy.
Ultimately, frictional processes convert all of a wave's energy into heat.
Where does intense activity occur in a plant?
What does a plant need to live?
Bouncing sound waves off the bottom of the ocean is used to find what?
Light is what inside of water droplets?
Buried vegetation in a wetland changes to peat over what?
Solar energy is absorbed by chlorophyll.
What is not a cell?
What do tunicates need to reproduce?
Biomass is the total mass of what at a trophic level?
Oxygen in the soil is vital for healthy roots.
What eats other living things?
high pressure systems cause clear weather
Mammals generate the internal heat via metabolism.
What are used to produce energy by burning?
Rough endoplasmic reticulum has ribosomes attached d.
Several plant species pollinate through what?
the Earth being tilted on its rotating axis causes what?
Wind can cause damage to buildings and bring down power lines.
What do extreme heat and pressure create?
What happens if a plant gets too hot?
Erosion happens when water or wind wears away bits of rock.
Evaporation absorbs heat and condensation releases heat.
When air cools, the water vapor in the air condenses."
Heterotrophic bacteria derive energy from the breakdown of organic molecules.
what bind together to form a chain called a polynucleotide?
Batteries are a very handy source of power.
Cold temperatures keep food fresh and inhibit the growth of most bacteria.
Much of the volcanic soil is permeable.
What can't fungi make food with?
What can be learned from play?
Furthermore, such laser light is polarized.
if an animal lives under ground then that animal will be what from wild combustion?
What happens to the mass of an object when exerted by the object?
Monotremes are mammals that lay eggs.
If more space between 2 galaxies more space to expand so it moves away faster.
Where does lengthening and widening occur in plant roots?
Sharks have internal fertilization, and most give birth to live young.
Favorite food is chicken.
Currently computers run on electric circuits and wires.
About O2, every living thing requires oxygen in order to live.
Kitchen appliances include refrigerator.
being buried under soil and mud changes plants into what through extreme heat and pressure in a swam
Cancer cells grow and divide rapidly out of control.
Protein There are many types of protein.
If trees are cut or burned, the carbon is released back into the atmosphere.
Many plants have developed unique leaf adaptations in order to conserve water.
What causes rocks to weather?
Force acting against motion causes what?
_ are used for moving people across bodies of water.
Most bacteria are destroyed by heat.
What is a major change that happens in menopause?
People cover up with a blanket to stay warm.
Most ecosystems get energy from what in the atmosphere?
What is caused by Earth being tilted on it's axis?
Seed dispersal has a what on flowering and yield?
What's an example of something that converts heat energy into mechanical energy?
What are endothermic vertebrates with legs?
Organisms grow up to resemble their parents.
Man is human, subject to error.
A valley is formed by what in the wilderness?
a what has the purpose to produce for propagation
inlets of large water bodies like in New Jersey can be used to produce what
Warmer ones are closer to the equator where the Sun's heat is stronger.
Humans, of course, can sweat and perspiration tastes salty.
Evaporation is when the sun heats the water and changes some of it to gas.
a rubber band snapping causes the particles in the rubber band to vibrate
what part of a planet causes the pull of gravity on that planet?
A thermal insulator does what to the convection in fluids?
What is lung cancer a consequence of?
What is used for heating buildings?
what blocks erosion?
Nuclear reactions in space provide the Earth with
Gases from burning coal and oil dissolving in water in the atmosphere can hurt what?
Veins generally carry what type of blood?
a long tail can be used for _ by an animal
what do mammals use for heat?
Blood is pumped around the body by a heart .
Many small plants grow in the shade under the trees.
What is required to remove creatinine from the body?
What requires either insects or wind.
The type of supportive community that lions live in is called what?
What can be reduced when a population suddenly gets much smaller?
What is the chemical element with symbol N and atomic number 7 found in?
where do gametophytes come from?
What is something made from fossil fuel?
Everyone has a different metabolism.
Flagella help what move?
Another name for the breathing tree is the respiratory system.
Animals and humans need to eat plants to what
What kind of cancer does exposure to cigarettes and cigars often cause?
What do genes do to form a chain?
What can be used to extend the shelf life of food?
Rainbows Rainbows are important symbols to the Navajo people.
Breath, food and proper rest is primary to health.
Intelligence primarily comes from what being pass down?
Aids is the end stage of HIV infection.
What do animals do when the available nutrients in an environment decrease?
what does a flashlight require to produce light?
Computers run when what is working properly?
vein deposits of gold and silver are formed where?
All humans are the same species.
How do leaves keep animals from getting cold? 
What do mammals use a diaphragm for?
Desert Dunes Desert sand dunes occur in an amazing diversity of forms.
Flatworms Flatworms or Platyhelminthes include flukes, tapeworms, and turbellarians.
Viruses are not cells at all, so they are neither prokaryotes nor eukaryotes.
Also, microwave ovens produce much less heat than stoves for cooking.
Some vegetation requires less water and can survive what?
When metal is hit, what happens to the particles?
what causes tremors?
An added benefit is increased stamina and aerobic capacity.
Digestive processes include mechanical, chemical and enzymatic mechanisms.
What causes changes in characteristics of living things over time?
what type of paper does not require cutting down trees?
Ultimately, all energy on the earth comes from the sun.
Just behind the pupil is a lens.
Why do bears enter a deep sleep?
What causes increased object velocity?
What is creates the intensity of a fire?
Convection is the transfer of heat in fluids.
Transpiration is when _  moves from plants into the atmosphere
When water molecules expand, what do they begin to form?
When plants die, they decay and leave minerals in the soil for future plant life.
creating what requires cutting down trees
If it jumps, bites and growls, it is aggressive.
What are formed in plants?
Thyroid hormones increase the rate of what in cells?
What is the study of things with cells?
Populations are the sub-units of species.
High body heat is necessary for maximum predatory activity.
Combustion is a type of oxidation reaction.
Solutes decrease the freezing point or the point of crystallization of water.
pushing on the pedals of a bike cause that bike to move
What do some worms do to their hosts?
What moves sediment downstream?
Crop reproduction relies on what insects?
Earthquakes are special kinds of natural disasters.
High tide is when the best waves come in.
What enters ecosystems in the form of sunlight or combinations of elements?
What can affect the small organelles where proteins are made?
If it causes changes in DNA, it is considered a mutagen, or potential carcinogen.
When electricity flows to a bulb, the room is seen what?
Chromosomes are units of information causing traits to be what to offspring?
What do you measure in inches and fractions of inches?
After a beat, the door chime sounds.
Natural selection is differential reproduction.
What do microbial fuel cells and electric generators both create?
What did the dinosaur group dromaeosaurs evolve into?
What helps keep people from getting sick?
Sunlight, for instant, takes a full 8 minutes to cross the 150 million km to our windows.
Because of gravitation, objects that are on or near the earth are pulled toward it.
What is considered to be nonliving?
Warm air advancing on what causes cloudy and rainy weather?
What are fibers composed of?
What has a woody stem covered in bark?
What are genes located on the same pair?
What does an earthworm do that would help plants?
what can be required for plants to reproduce?
Rainbows are an optical phenomena due to the diffraction of light waves.
What has a circulatory system with a two-chambered heart?
What kind of organism use cellulose for their cell walls?
Animals usually require what for survival?
Twelve touch genes are needed for touch cell function.
What can make a river deepen and widen?
Thyroid hormone is made by the thyroid gland in the neck.
what do glands secrete?
what does ice melt into?
What can cause change in genetic characteristics
All species are aquatic, most are marine.
Human life is dependent life.
Dinosaurs and Other Prehistoric Creatures Dinosaurs are just one group of prehistoric animals.
Insect Pollinators Learn about pollination and why insect pollinators are important in the garden.
The next generation of an organism rises via:
squids do what sexually?
Then the engine spins up and starts producing thrust.
When the fuel is ignited, it burns with oxygen.
For the heart is the chief organ of the body and rules it.
Edible mushrooms have been used by various cultures for centuries as a food.
What is one method of fixing DNA mutations?
What can be caused by storms?
Viruses often infect bacteria.
What can cause infection?
What is left over when salty water is heated?
All rockets generate thrust by igniting an mixture of fuel and 'oxidiser'.
Carpooling cuts down on congestion and pollution.
why do animals sweat?
Most violent behavior is learned behavior.
Conserving what can be used for survival in a dry environment?
Animals are a kingdom of multicellular eukaryotes.
Sandy and dusty surfaces get hotter during the day, like beach sand.
Gymnosperms comprise four divisions.
All matter, living and nonliving, is made up of atoms.
How can you keep a fire from getting bigger?
Long term survival depends upon outside air to breathe.
Emphasis is on playing the sport.
An apple apparently crumples.
Rain increases the depth of the lakes.
What in an airplane can mutate organisms?
Air pollution can cause diseases and harm crops.
what do bacteria undergo?
Members of what kingdom that shed their leaves seasonally each year are called deciduous.
tectonic plates being pushed together causes earthquakes
the vanes rotating in an electric fan causes air to move
what can genetic material have?
What may cause animals to fight towards members of their own species?
Gastropod Shells of marine animals are often preserved as fossils.
Measure of length is by meter and land measure by hectares.
What can cause objects to push away each other?
What can some gymnosperms be used as?
Smoking constricts arteries and increases clotting to block arteries.
Flower spores eventually develop into an entity that is:
What are important in the fertilization step in the sexual reproduction of plants?.
How do we determine the probability of receiving more water than a body can hold?
Active immunity results when an immune response to a pathogen produces memory cells.
Eilat is the safest place in the area.
Biomes are the world's major habitats.
Photosynthesis is how plants and some other life forms use sunlight to grow.
What may vary in size as well as shape, but all are very small?
Animals get their energy from food.
Again, oncogenes turn on cell growth.
What can a ruler measure the meters of?
Food poisoning is a serious illness.
Arterioles carry what type of blood?
What can harm crops?
Most types of what have motility?
Opposite forces cause the thrust of the rocket.
Gametes then unite in fertilization and form a diploid zygote.
Then the planted seeds are placed in a warm greenhouse.
Microscopes and telescopes both use lenses.
what does ultraviolet light cause?
What during reproduction develop into new haploid individuals without being fertilized
a generator converts kinetic energy into electrical energy
What does building housing developments hurt?
Hurricanes can
a light bulb is used for seeing
Drugs are chemical substances, which are material.
Fungi include yeasts, molds, and fleshy fungi.
Contact at cold temperatures can cause immediate frostbite.
Energy is used to evaporate water.
Like nitrogen, phosphorus is a plant nutrient.
if humans disturb animals in a location then those animals will move to a different location
plant reproduction requires bats to spread their what?
How long can people survive while dehydrated?
Another name for sense of body position is proprioception.
What does condensing cause?
What causes damage to the lungs?
Hemp paper is superior to wood paper.
Arsenic compounds are poisonous.
Diversity is a matter of survival and prosperity.
What is an adaptation?
what contains electrons, atoms, and stars?
DNA stands for Deoxyribonucleicacid.
Also, the Earth revolving around the sun creates the seasons.
What use saturated fatty acids to store energy?
What do organisms cluster around, in the ocean floor?
what are living things that cannot make their own food?
Earthquakes can cause animals to leave a what?
Individuals who move into or out of a community increase:
Brachiopods are strictly marine and are usually found in shallow seas.
Water contains hydrogen and oxygen.
Rulers are divided into inches and fractions of inches.
Objects displace their volume in a fluid.
Parasitic plants and fungi can attack animals.
What are invertebrates such as gastropods?
what supplies the heart?
What tool can be used to bend rays of light?
Mountains make their own weather by forcing incoming air masses upward as they strike the mountains.
Doing what to food can extend shelf life by removing microorganisms?
Insects are in the phylum Arthropoda.
information in an organism 's what determine physical and some behavioral characteristics of offspring
Algae on Turf Plant Pathology Algae on Turf Algae are primitive green plants.
Float glass, reflective glass, laminated glass, mirrored float glass.
Air pollution harms the ecosystem.
What can you use to see in the dark?
Looking at what object could have a negative impact on the eyes?
What are conifer trees known as?
Erosion can be caused by 
Animals with _ form large colonies in shallow tropical water
what are the major crop that needs protecting by keeping them warm
What kind of life cycle do desmids have?
what do cells have?
hromosomes contain a recipe for the manufacture of what?
sedimentary rocks are formed by deposition
Nitrogen deficiency increases the stress on the plants.
Which of the following sciences studies cells?
where do fluid in the kidneys collect?
Fans move air, increasing evaporation and decreasing temperature.
What have regions that do not code from proteins?
What is a tulip's purpose?
Wind is defined as moving air.
Ants communicate with the colony using what?
Male tortoises have a long tail and females have a short fat tail.
Injury occurs as the muscle is being stretched while the muscle fibers are being contracted.
Aneurisms are dilations of the blood vessels.
What can be caused by condensation?
_ are tetrapods.
Why can metals expand?
Photosynthesis requires the chlorophyll molecule.
What kind of animal doesn't have a centralized nervous system?
transportation equipped with what is used for moving people across bodies of water
Salamanders are a type of amphibian.
Ultraviolet light is emitted by the sun.
dehydrating food is used for preserving food
What happens to aquatic life if acidity is higher or lower than a narrow range?
What can happen to make animals move to another area?
What do you use to measure liquid?
Since the purpose of a light bulb is to generate light, the heat is wasted energy.
Acids are harmful to tissue.
Erosion is responsible for wearing down exposed places and depositing sediment in level places.
what light can animals not see?
Furry animals grow thicker coats which has what impact on their survival?
streams start with runoff or what seeping out of a spring?
What does macroevolution involve?
How does urine leave the body?
friction causes an object to lose energy
what have humans collected and grown for thousands of years?
Many areas are mostly affected by the persistent drought in the shortage of food and water.
Seismic waves cause what to shake?
Viruses first infect, then they release into the host by doing what?
scraping oneself on a contaminated object may cause what?
What happens when the wire touches the battery?
Gold, scarlet, and auburn leaves make a mosaic of rich colors heralding seasonal change.
Sandy soils are permeable.
Blowing what into a whistle causes sound?
What allows for movement in animals?
Bus Bus transportation is nearby.
Dolphins are an aquatic mammal closely related to whales and porpoises.
Orbiting spacecraft reentering the Earth's atmosphere
What does predation limit on a species?
What do roots have?
Loss of wetland habitat has endangered numerous plant and animal species.
Erosion by acid solutions is only one way that caves form.
Magnetic: When an object is attracted to or sticks to a magnet, the object is called a magnetic.
What bacteria have a negative impact on the body?
What do mold spores make it hard to do?
Cells are organized into tissues, and tissues form organs.
Unconsolidated rock is rock such as gravel.
Landfill leachates and groundwater contamination.
When would water evaporate the most quickly?
What can be caused by information located in an organism's chromosomes?
a mirror is used for reflecting light
How does ground erosion impact the environment?
Rust colored residues are due to oxidized iron.
What are unicellular?
Because the surface of the ocean is heated by sunlight, the depths are cooler.
Sex Chromosomes determine sex of individual.
Rivers and creeks leave flood plains.
Rain and snow breaks down what from larger whole into smaller pieces?
Structures and behaviors help animals move and survive in their habitats.
Alternatively, through reuse and recycling, waste can be converted into useful products.
Plastic slows the transfer of
Architects build buildings.
Coral reefs provide what to many living beings in the ocean
Where are roundworms useful in an ecosystem?
Gasoline mowers can have as many emissions as what?
Insects have three body parts, a distinct head, thorax, and abdomen.
What unit is used to measure the intensity of matter vibrating?
What can be a deterrent?
Diabetes is caused by a reduction in insulin or a resistance to insulin.
what requires water to grow?
what can be found in raw wounds
How does a fan cause air to move?
Metabolic waste products can leave the body through
What are cell walls made of?
Slugs Slugs, a common Garden pest, are snails without a shell.
Extreme heat and pressure can turn rock into what?
Gene flow between populations is unidirectional.
What survives in drought?
Good lighting helps people see steps down, rugs or other obstacles.
Good sources of sugars are sugar, glucose, honey and sweets.
Changing water vapor to a liquid is done by doing what to heat energy?
Water freezes at zero degrees Celsius.
what plays to learn how to behave?
Feet are webbed and serve as a rudder.
Earthquakes are the signals of breaking rocks.
Roots associate with nitrogen fixing bacteria.
Starfish and sea urchins are also echinoderms.
Contraction of a muscle produces heat which is transported to other parts of the body by the blood.
What can power computers?
Information in organism's chromosomes cause what to be passed down to their litters?
What do lawn mowers use?
Animals are killed everyday because of pollution.
Soils are sand, clay, limestone, and organic deposits.
What lasts only as long as the antibodies survive in body fluids?
What is used for adjusting to hot temperatures by some animals?
Plants can be infected by what?
Cell division in what is more complex than cell division in prokaryotes?
What causes rust?
Effective insulation has a positive impact on an animal's what?
What are factors in the creation of formations in the desert?
Electric power is considered clean power.
What happens when vapor moves from bushes into the atmosphere?
What helps attract bees to plants?
when a cooler object touches a warmer object , thermal conduction occurs
What are the lithified remains of plants used for?
causing something to move can need what?
Boiling is evaporation that occurs theroughout a liquid.
Particles have mass, but mass is energy.
Melting matter does not change its 
What requires a lot of electricity?
Heat When exercising, the body creates excess heat.
What can help an animal to grow and heal?
Tumor Tumors are masses of neoplastic origin.
Rain is only one kind of precipitation.
What is one of the ways that mammals and other animals learn how to act?
With another ruler, measure the length of the shadow.
Friction is chronic impact, impact is acute friction.
Rice is a member of the grass family.
Plants are the major producers in terrestrial biomes.
Many people confuse breathing with respiration, but breathing is just the first step of respiration.
When seawater freezes, salt is expelled from the solid in a concentrated salt solution called brine.
Different kinds of plants have different life cycles.
What underneath an object will cause thermal expansion?
What is important for the chemical equilibrium of the body?
Fair weather causes what?
what produces a flow of electrons
Rocks breakdown by weathering.
Pollination is the fertilization step in the sexual reproduction of plants.
Oak trees are so strong.
Child' is ambiguous between 'offspring' and 'immature offspring'.
Proper watering is important to the successful growth of the Christmas cactus.
What condenses in clouds to cause rain?
What is used to determine the age of extinct organisms?
Like sponges, they are attached to the ocean floor.
Direct sunlight burns foliage.
Spores are washed into the field in flood water.
Sexual reproduction involves karyogamy and meiosis.
And anything edible is food.
Work is the conversion of one form of energy into another.
Pheromones are hormones that are thought to stimulate, through smell, sexual reactions in animals.
What can cause disease, and have a negative impact on the body?
Where on plates do earthquakes most often occur? 
Weight is the force of gravity on an object.
Organisms living in marine biomes must be adapted to what in the water?
What helps unicellular organisms move?
What is found in that that gives plants a green color?
What has a spinal column?
Age of Pine trees (AGE) in years.
Cells have multiple repair mechanisms to fix the effects of what?
what can high temperatures cause?
Active transport requires a carrier molecule and a form of energy.
If warm air is advancing on cold air, the front is designated a warm front.
What does the animal that burrows to help aerate soil have?
Also, very powerful, high concentration lasers can burn or cut the skin.
If two pieces are making physical contact in any way, they're touching.
Thus swimming is defined as a special kind of moving, namely moving in or through water.
Rabbits lack the vomiting reflex, and are physically almost incapable of regurgitation.
What can lead to a deteroriation in soil quality?
Nucleotides are the building blocks of DNA .
What is used to protect plants by keeping their temperature?
What is a result of genetic material being exchanged during reproduction?
Among families with children the average number of offspring is 1.8.
Skin is comprised of two layers, the epidermis and dermis.
What does nitrogen do when it's heated
What tends to occur when individuals move in and out of a population?
Freshwater biomes contain water that contains little to no what?
Shivering produces heat in the body.
What do the actions of sediment and bacteria create?
What is NOT a byproduct of using a gasoline engine?
What do veins carry?
People understand that habitat destruction and pollution are harmful to wildlife.
What causes the westerlies?
The food safety zone is above 165 F for hot foods and under 40 F for cold food.
What must seals be adapted to?
What has circulatory system with a two-chambered heart?
Igneous rocks are what through volcanoes erupting and lava?
what can you find from an animal that indicates is used to live in that place?
Wind can damage crops.
Where does a cell convert oxygen and carbohydrates into carbon dioxide, water, and energy? 
what does a rubber band snapping cause?
be prepared for clear, cold days after what
What makes food for themselves and other organisms?
What does the green matter on plants do?
Steel is a solution of metals.
What are the cells of living beings called?
Compounds or molecules Chemical compounds are combinations of elements.
Cells are programmed to _  only a set number of times.
Plants can conserve water in order to survive where?
Insulin produced by the pancreas is endogenous insulin.
What do plants do when a tree nearby falls?
What do some female mammals lack?
Fur is a fiber that is found only in what type of animal?
Adult sperm are capable of producing sperm and what in order to be able to reproduce?
a plant requires what to live longer?
Mollusks have a circulatory system with one or two hearts that move blood into what?
What kills animals every day?
What is the type of cell division that creates sex cells?
Arm day hits the bicep, tricep and forearm muscles.
What do mulberry trees do in the autumn?
What requires a source of electricity to produce light?
The transfer of pollen to what is the fertilization step of the sexual reproduction of a plant?
What keeps food fresh?
what has a positive impact on the environment?
what learns how to behave by playing?
The Earth being tilted on its rotating axis causes
Normally the pancreas produces the right amount of insulin to move the glucose into the cells.
an organism requires energy for what?
erosion can cause 
Hermatypic organisms provide what to many ocean organisms?
What causes damage to forest ecosystems?
Table salt is a typical evaporated salt product.
Creatures with six legs may live in what?
What can power a light bulb?
Nerve endings in the skin allow us to feel pain, pressure, heat, and cold.
what has a positive impact on health?
What travel throughout the body in the blood?
What is a product of layers of sediment pushing down on decomposing algae over time?
A spinning electron is what causes magnetism.
 fungi are living things that cannot make their own what
What do cells have multiple repair mechanisms to repair?
Cells are the basic units of the structure and function of living things.
what consists of organic molecules that stores energy in its chemical bonds?
landfills have a negative impact on the environment
What do humans use when living in a cold climate?
hormones control many cell activities and are important to what?
There is no "gaseous" oxygen on the Moon and the Moon itself is bone dry.
Creating wood-free paper does not require what?
Arthropods are the largest group of animals.
Some producers use what physical feature to use energy and inorganic molecules?
Geckos are, in fact, reptiles.
Commonly, a bridge is a structure built to cross a body of water.
Leaves fall off during drought or cold conditions.
Limestone is a rock composed of calcium, carbon and oxygen.
Blood flow is improved by vitamin E and it causes blood vessels to dilate or expand.
For example, an infection of a limb is usually treated with antibiotics.
Douglas Fir trees have fir cones.
Mites are almost microscopic and best seen with a hand lens or magnifying glass.
Metals, such as copper wire, are good conductors for carrying electric current.
What animal can cause a lake to form?
Antigens are proteins foreign to the body.
Some red algae are eaten by humans.
what can tidal energy be used to produce?
Sledge hammers can be used to break especially hard ledges of rock.
Soil can be depleted of a thing that fertilizers can what to soil?
Mollusks are invertebrates such as the common snail.
What fuel does fanning a fire provide?
What type of system is biodiversity?
Insects have 2 antennae.
Acidity increases as the pH number decreases, and alkalinity increases as the pH number increases.
what slows the transfer of heat?
Hyperthyroidism is an overactive thyroid gland .
What object cannot be measured by a balance?
What kind of effect does a squirrel have on the ecosystem?
Climate influences plant growth, biodiversity, and adaptations of land organisms.
When does a flood occur in a lake?
What helps an animal move through a river better?
What can be dangerous?
Where are salt and freshwater biomes found?
Without oxygen in the soil, most plants die.
An object loses kinetic energy each time it hits a non-elastic surface.
Reproduction is sexual with internal fertilization.
What causes water to stay on earth's surface?
What does immunodeficiency do?
macroevolution is evolution over what, above the level of the species?
What can have a negative impact on the sinuses in a body?
What can be caused by earthquakes?
what involves the retina?
Slate is an example of a metamorphic rock.
how frequent are new genetic variations in a gene pool?
What is something that changes an ecosystem?
Monkeys are very social animals.
How does herpes stay in a person?
What falls from the equator to the poles?
What can cause a short-term cooling of the Earth's climate?
Which body system releases chemical messengers that control many body functions?
pollutants have a negative impact on all what
what species may be caused to fight each other by competition?
what reproduction requires pollination?
What breaks food into nutrients for the body?
Where most viruses are DNA, HIV is an RNA virus.
What can living underground help animals do?
Chlorination uses liquid chlorine bleach to kill microorganisms.
What can be determined by the average number of people per one unit of area?
Venus is thought to be hot because of the runaway greenhouse effect.
what does hydropower require doing to a river?
Urine leaves the body through a sphincter in the process of urination.
One of the oldest forms of energy used by humans can be used to produce what?
Producers use energy and inorganic molecules for what?
Ethologists are scientists who study animals in their natural habitats.
What uses electrical energy converted from chemical energy?
What does an organism require for blood flow to viscera, organs, and tissues?
Energy pollution Cars operate mainly on gasoline, a fossil fuel.
All carcasses are chilled with cool air for 48 hours.
Most people want to have children who are the biological offspring of both parents.
What type of plant produces seeds in cones?
What are formed as rivers become deeper and wider?
First, the sun is a brilliant source of white light.
Fertilization occurs when an egg and what join together to form a diploid zygote?
What can cause death?
Fires can cause serious injury and death as well as the loss of equipment and facilities.
Warming in a skillet causes a what in an egg?
Keep your food fresh, simple and as natural as possible.
What does burning coal in coal-fired power plants produce?
Airplanes and cars are equipped with engines.
what gets deeper and wide from erosion?
the mass of a planet causes the pull of gravity on that planet
What is one type of abnormal cell division?
Plants are the major producers in biomes defined by their what?
Roses are among the hardiest of all plants.
a gasoline lawn mower converts gasoline into motion
An engine is needed to provide the thrust for forward motion.
Which activity can transform electrical energy to heat energy
Fire converts energy into something people use for what?
Sailplanes fly in clear weather.
Lengths are given in centimeters.
What happens to ice?
how does a car engine usually convert gasoline into motion and heat?
Secondary growth produces wood and bark in seed plants .
Gasoline is made up of hydrocarbons.
Lasers produce beams that are:
what is cognitive?
Among mollusks, the golden snail is a survivalist.
What has primary and secondary meristems?
What damages our environment?
Mirrors in telescopes reflect light waves.
What falls on the windward side extensive foreland thrust developments?
Deserts are hot, dry places.
Which of the following do not grow using mitosis?
What can environmental change affect?
Seasonal Affective Disorder or SAD is a depressive condition caused by seasonal changes.
Vapor doing what forms beads of liquid?
Which reproduce sexually?
Many orchids are rewarding indoor plants.
What is a refrigerator used for?
What is the breaking down of whole rocks into smaller pieces?
Courtship is behavior that is intended to 
Fathers parent differently than mothers.
What does origami change about paper?
Plants are heat and drought tolerant.
What flavor are kids naturally drawn to?
What parasites kill their human, but some do not?
what does digestion involve?
what decreases your stamina when you smoke it?
Structures coil when, and are made of DNA and proteins?
if an object is kicked then it very readily what?
killing microorganisms in food can be used to extend the shelf life of that food
What turns a liquid into a solid?
an objects color determines how much it is affected by what
Many people contend that orgasms are highly intensified when the body is cut off from oxygen.
what requires nutrients to grow?
Astrogarden objects are toys.
Astronomy is the scientific study of the stars, planets and the other celestial bodies.
Sulfur Dioxide and Asthmatics A highly reactive colorless gas smelling like rotten eggs, sulfur dioxide derives primarily from fossil fuel combustion.
Some what are beneficial to humans?
What does food consist of?
Like the echidna, a platypus is a monotreme.
What does a planet receive more of when it is tilted?
Food often spoils when stored in an environment that is warm and __.
Besides the above-named species, various other species of the genus have been used medicinally.
what do acellular organisms need?
contact between rocks over long periods of time causes rocks to be what?
a rubber band snapping causes the particles in the rubber band to cause what?
What are found in skin?
Influenza viruses are notorious for their seasonality.
Why does water sink in oil?
What will change the amount of daylight?
What eventually decomposes?
What causes ice to form?
Prisms are round pieces of glass.
Fur seals grow a thick undercoat of fur, used as insulation.
Clear weather is caused by sinking air.
Roots Roots anchor the plant into the ground.
What is the distinguishing feature of monotremes?
To open more areas for water skiing, engineers could
What is converted in a flashlight?
Diesel and gasoline are chemicals.
Recycling is the reuse of material.
Most eukaryotes reproduce sexually.
Populations are groups of individuals of the same species.
Limestone is a type of sedimentary rock.
What do tissues need to repair themselves?
what is fan speed?
If there is a lot of glucose in the blood, the pancreas makes insulin.
Spores are distributed by the wind.
Feathers help birds fly and what?
Cancer requires an accumulation of mutations.
Echinoderms lack respiratory and excretory systems.
What provides food and shelter to many ocean organisms?
What is blood heavy with?
What can ultraviolet light cause?
Very often their only metal object in the house is a cooking pot or a knife.
What is it called when when gametes unite in fertilization?
Most species construct burrows.
Most foods contain several nutrients.
Roseate spoonbills frequent fresh, brackish, and saltwater wetlands, mangrove islands.
what do organic foods not have?
what can communicate with chemicals called pheromones
Birds huddle together for warmth.
How does a cactus survive droughts?
Shivering provides heat generated by muscle contraction.
what can slowly dissolve carbon in sedimentary rock?
Scavengers take in food by eating what?
Frogs are classified as amphibians.
What that eventually lead to cell death usually occur in genes that control the cell cycle?
What is produced by the fermentation in corn and other plants?
Actually, only the female mosquitoes bite people.
Exospores and endospores are produced by some members of the cyanobacteria.
Wampanucket soils are prime farmland soils.
Chemical weathering causes chemical changes in the minerals of a rock.
Everyone who died in the war was killed by the Americans.
Where do non-parasitic protists live?
Thorough cooking is the most effective way to kill microorganisms in food.
Meters measure length.
What can happen during the reproduction process?
If most reptiles have bad eyesight, the ability to smell is what?
Light Bulbs Incandescent bulbs are available at the front desks.
Some insets can use their antennae to detect what?
what typically travels long distances?
absorbing energy causes an object to do what?
What can cause predators pain?
Mammals can also generate little bursts of heat by shivering.
All sound is created by vibrations.
What is a member of the group that supplies most of the food consumed by people worldwide?
Fire puts off heat.
Alluvial deposits can form deltas where the river flows into a lake or ocean.
Amphibians have permeable skin that easily absorbs substances from the environment.
A woman's reproductive years usually ends at what stage of life?
Bacteria that cause disease are called pathogens.
What is a DNA strand?
what is a stove used to prepare by generating heat?
The habitat of spoonbills is an extremely important what?
Genes can be what on something wonderful?
Currents flow across the large bodies of water from continent to continent.
Lions live in social groups of up to twenty in their what?
Learning and memory are essential to an animal's ability to survive and thrive.
What are the stuff of life?
if the amount of available food and water decreases in an environment then animals may leave that environment to find food and water
what can fish not make?
What happens if a planet is too close to its star?
What do mammals breathe?
Global warming is when average seasonal temperature increases to a warmer temp.
Gravitation is a constant impelling force.
Burrs and some other seeds have tiny barbs that hook on to cat fur.
Other animals eat cactus to get water.
Flash evaporators are used to make fresh water from salt water.
What is caused by less production of thyroid-stimulating hormone?
Petals attract what to a flower?
When sweat is evaporated into the air, it provides additional cooling.
what water is calmer?
Prokaryotes are usually microscopic and bacteria is an example of a prokaryote.
Homeostasis is the central theme of physiology.
Nucleotides are the monomers that make nucleic acids.
what must organisms that live in maine biomes be adapted to?
What is able to make food using inorganic molecules?
Trash ends up in landfills .
what consists of fatty acids?
Two daughter cells are formed at what stage in cell division?
Physiologically, sex is for the purpose of reproduction.
what can negatively impact a species?
Exercise, fever, and heat cause the body's temperature to rise.
What moving downhill due to the force of gravity can dissolve carbon in sedimentary rock?
Within the Nematoda, a range of reproductive systems occur.
what happens to chemical messengers for them to cause depression
Energy from a generator
Harmful microbes that cause diseases are called pathogens.
Water is needed to transport flagellated sperm to archegonium.
A ship is an example of what?
what are not cells?
Cooking can be done on the 2 or 3 electrical stoves located at each facility.
For example, sound is a wave of vibrating air.
Food is then dehydrated in slow oven or dehydrator.
What does a windmill create?
DNA is assembled from nucleic acids.
Cloud cover and precipitation  cause temperature fluctuations.
How are rainbows formed?
what can cause death?
And slow sperm is one of the leading causes of male infertility .
Favorite foods are cakes, noodles, rice, eggs and fruits.
what is formed by substances reacting with one another?
What grinds rocks over time?
What needs less water and will survive in a drought?
the second-largest invertebrate group reproduce how
power stations which generate electricity produce gases in the atmosphere cause what
Carbon dioxide, CO2, is usually a harmless gas.
Hydropower can devastate a what?
what have radial symmetry?
what are membranes made of?
what are not cells
Many _ can cause the immune system to not work properly.
Viruses often can spread bacteria through what?
Arteries generally carry oxygen-rich blood.
Electricity can give the opener a shock.
What can a greenhouse protect by keeping warm?
Disease causing organisms are called pathogens .
What do echinoids lack?
Some viruses live in a dormant state inside the body.
Penetration is when the sperm and egg meet and the sperm makes it way into the egg cytoplasm.
what are airplanes used for moving people across?
_ is more complex in eukaryotes than prokaryotes.
What types of things can microscopes see?
Endocrine hormones move from place to place through the
What happens when the immune system recognizes a foreign substance?
What can attract copper?
Mammals are animals with a backbone.
Honey bees provide honey and pollinate crops.
Chemical weathering is the chemical disintigration of rocks.
Fertilization of gametes produces
where are mushrooms found?
Pheromones are only found in insects.
what intends to cause harm or pain
What stays warm in winter?
plates in the earth do what which causes earthquakes
what gets affected when worldwide temperature increases?
Biological structures are too complex.
First, bacteria are haploid.
What are clouds made of?
The thing that causes objects to be pulled down on a planet was defined by which scientist?
Sometimes animal offspring look very different from their parents.
An animal panting has decreased what?
What is the key to newborn survival?
High pressure systems cause what weather conditions?
When do stars fulfill the inevitable conclusion of Einstein's General Theory of Relativity?
Tumors are either benign or malignant.
What are Prions void of
If a force that opposes motion is applied to an object, what will happen to its speed?
The gravitational pull of the moon on Earth's what cause flooding and damaged homes?
What can threatening behavior be?
Deserts are formed because of lack of water.
Plants require what to grow and flower?
Plastic bags are recyclable and they are reusable.
Each year has four seasons.
Cycles of freezing and thawing water help to make
What can be used for keeping warm?
What are the two ingredients of a saline solution?
The skin has points on it to feel what?
Air-mass boundaries are generally associated with frontal zones.
Fungi are multicellular organisms that absorb their food molecule by molecule.
Class Aves is for the birds, literally.
Yeasts, for instance, reproduce by forming spores as well as by budding.
During cytokinesis , the cell body splits into two cells.
Vineyards are vertically trellised, low to the ground, increasing sunlight exposure in the fruit zone.
Inheritance is passed down through the males.
A fiber found only in mammals grows from a bulb under what?
If someone has bad eyesight,the sense of smell is heightened.
A rubber band snapping causes the particles in the rubber band to
Frequency of Mutations Mutations are rare events.
An elastic snapping causes the particles in the elastic to do what?
Examples of animal organs are kidneys and hearts.
Energy is a basic necessity of an ecosystem.
When there is a drought, there is no water under the fence.
Sugar is also an organic substance, but it is different than flour and does crystalize.
What is something that converts mass to energy?
sheep have what fur to keep warm
Flowers attract animal pollinators.
Viruses on the other hand are much smaller and multiply inside the cells of the body.
What system is DNA part of?
Bermuda high-pressure systems are a frequent summer visitor.
Fertilized eggs carried on female.
What results when intracellular pathogens evade activation of the cell?
What increases the process of remove waste and excess water from the body?
What causes night on a planet?
how are caves formed?
Where is the zygote located that produces the next generation?
What can cause harm to the most fragile part of the face?
A force of water which moves can slowly dissolve carbon in what?
Many sports are solely competition sports.
Service animals are trained to behave properly in public settings.
Which of the following affects neurons?
What is so small it can be seen only with an electron microscope?
Active brains and muscles require more oxygen and nutrients.
What do fungi require?
Organisms adapting is what process?
What are usually considered to be nonliving?
What do earthworms do?
During the day, the earth is heated up by the sun.
vertebrates have a complete digestive system and a what?
What can be formed from cooling magma?
Fish are backboned aquatic animals.
Metals are also known as being good conductors of heat, or thermal conductors.
green plants convert water, solar energy, and carbon dioxide into what
What detects and responds to the daily cycle of light and darkness?
what between objects formed deep within the Earth causes them to smooth
Bird's feathers have evolved from reptile scales.
An electrical current is a flow of electrons.
who will move if a habitat can no longer support them?
Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are life-sustaining plant processes.
Habitats where fish live in large quantities are usually larger than what?
Most mammals have hair, or fur, covering their body.
what do genes contain?
Bacteria usually cause epididymitis.
Lake Trout Lake Trout fishing is good in Loonhaunt and Pipestone Lakes.
What creates evolution?
Mountain stream water is drinkable.
What do yard lamps use to convert electricity to light? 
Pollution is usually harmful to one or more species of animal or plant.
Extremes in temperature can kill animals.
what does earth's tilt rotating on its axis cause to change?
Objects can be stationary or moving with constant linear velocity.
High pressure means falling air, which is a condition minimizing cloud formation.
Abalone is an example of an animal that:
Epidermal: Pertaining to the upper layer of cells, on the skin, or elsewhere.
Some substances are harmful to the body and block biological systems.
Blood carries oxygen to the brain.
a plant requires food for survival
Breathing and circulation allow oxygen to be transported to the body's cells.
Porcini mushrooms are earthy, musky, sexy food.
Wetlands are extremely important whats
_ have the amazing capacity to regrow segments.
what is the eye able to sense?
Household light bulbs are evacuated glass enclosures with wires leading to a tungsten filament.
What causes organisms to grow?
What happens to surrounding plants if a tree falls?
Animals with radial symmetry lack an anterior and posterior end.
A solar panel converts _ into electricity
what detects and responds to the daily cycle of light and darkness?
For any substance, the density is a measure of the mass of a unit volume of that substance.
DNA damage is called mutation.
Fungi are heterotrophs that utilize organic matter.
When the egg is ready to hatch, it hatches.
How do fungi get nutrition?
What do rivers do to rocks?
An animal that travels long distances is
What would a person do that would reduce their body heat?
Excessive physical and emotional exertion does what to an animal?
What measures the amount of space a substance takes up?
Chromosomes are what made of deoxyribonucleic acid and proteins?
Holy basil and bush basil are related plants.
What does the intricate event of pollination help plants do?
If a person does what it may be due to a pathogen?
what requires water for survival?
what often infects bacteria?
What does electricity need to do to work properly?
Natural selection results in:
In photosynthesis, plants convert solar energy, carbon dioxide, and water into what?
Where does human fertilization naturally take place?
What does sunlight do for a plant?
What expands when it conducts heat?
Some surgical nitrile gloves offer limited splash protection from chemicals.
Ethologists usually study how animals do what in an ecosystem?
What creates new genetic variation in the gene pool?
slime molds are fungus-like what?
Flooding is one of the results of erosion.
Grave bodily harm generally refers to crippling injuries.
what happens to energy as it goes up levels?
What does sunlight create for plants?
Sheep are mammals with thick, woolly fur, and hoofed feet.
ish have a circulatory system with what?
Biologists study living creatures.
Cancer can cause death.
What shares a location with spiracles?
Liquids are one state of matter.
Genes are altered for what to occur?
Animals require plants to what?
What do flooding rivers help plants do?
Brain tumors occur when what is no longer regulated?
what do animals find in hot temperatures?
What causes oxidation to happen at a faster rate?
What are sometimes made from the material that covers woody stems?
Vibrations in air can be used for what by animals?
What are molecules that the immune system recognizes as foreign to the body?
People with healthy immune systems usually get well on their own.
Soft tissue refers to the soft connective or supporting tissues, such as muscle.
What has a positive impact on the environment?
What gas is produced by burning propane?
Heat and warmth help other gift plants.
Autumnal pools fill during the fall with rising groundwater.
Tigers are the largest of the living cats.
During the daytime or in hot weather they seek shelter.
what in the skin sense temperature and pain?
adding salt to a solid decreases the freezing point of that solid
Frogs are amphibians and ducks are aves.
Deoxygenated blood is heavy with carbon dioxide.
What are cells in plants and animals?
What can cause the most damage to thin soil?
Physical contact can be used to detect what?
Light is a form of Energy.
Children are naturally drawn to the sweetness of foods that contain sugar.
Serious side effects resulting from vaccination are extremely rare.
What does an animal require to move?
What slows the transfer of electricity more?
What can be used to make fuel?
What enables natural selection to occur?
Which is a requirement for life?
Once a device is plugged into electrical outlets, it can communicate with other devices.
what must happen for water vapor to move from plants into the atmosphere?
Most viruses, like HIV, are ball-shaped.
Smoke is full of carcinogens.
heavy rains can cause high levels of what?
Insects can smell with their antennae.
Lymphocytes in circulation are small cells.
Doing what to food requires adding the source of energy?
All cell organelles are hypertrophic.
What happens when copper is exposed to heat?
What animal gives live birth?
what can cause harm to the eyes?
what causes stars to produce light?
what is electricity sometimes used to heat?
Cells that divide uncontrollably may form a tumor, or abnormal mass of cells.
What causes erosion the most?
One side of the Earth receives less what from the Sun than the other side?
Insect colonies Insect colonies are families because all members are close relatives.
How do you balance the acidity of soil?
A force that keeps species what increases the productivity and stability of ecosystems?
Humans acquire the infection from contact with infected animals, carcasses, or nonliving material.
What is the behavior of attracting something that is phenotypically similar to the seeker called?
Liquids are always measured accurately by volume.
Just next to the visible light spectrum is the infrared spectrum.
Nectar Nectar is the sugary liquid produced by many flowers.
Water lillies are one of the most ancient angiosperm plants.
some harmful organisms live how inside the body before multiplying inside cells
Incandescent lights heat a metal filament that radiates light inside a glass bulb.
Plant cells are surrounded by a cell membrane and a cell wall.
Sweat is water, salt, some urea.
what is a change in the characteristics of living things over time?
Infection is a common cause of death.
What type of job do ethologists have?
What can be used for heating a building by a heating system?
What do animals find protection from when using rock overhangs?
what is electricity?
Bacteria are single-cell organisms.
What can be determined with radioactive dating?
What are prairie dogs protected from?
what are responsible for earthquakes?
a cactus stem is used for what?
Solar panels absorb energy from the sun.
plants cell walls are readily broken down by what
What effect does seed dispersal have on humans?
An egg will hatch if it what?
Spiracles are located on the abdomen and thorax.
What are numerous in plant cells?
Earthquakes and volcanic eruptions can cause tsunamis.
Along with water, minerals are lost in the urine.
Sleep provides relaxation and rest.
What use energy and minerals to make food?
What can cause the leading cause of death for children?
What can infect and live inside the cells of living organisms?
contact between rocks over long periods of time causes rocks to smooth
Soil Erosion Soil erosion is a natural process.
How do most analgesics work on invertebrates?
Limestone is a fairly common rock type.
What can increase soil acidity?
Whales are aquatic mammals.
Coal today is mostly used for power plants creating electricity.
The evolution of animal genetic resources can be impacted by:
Flood probability is based on past floods.
overcoming the energy barrier starts a what
Objects are made of different material.
Flagella are long filaments made up of the protein flagellin.
what type of nervous system do Cephalopods have?
Soil provides nutrients and moisture necessary for plant growth and is fundamental to all life.
Tobacco smoke contains tar.
Sex hormones control sexual development in male and female bodies.
Plants stabilize soils and oxygenate the atmosphere.
slime mold are fungus-like what?
Vascular tissue is a conducting tissue type.
Brain tumors are one of the fastest growing cancers today.
All liquids pour and flow.
Most municipal trash is disposed of in such landfills.
Sound energy is created by vibrating objects.
Fruits Fruits and fruit juices provide important amounts of vitamin C and potassium.
What is absolutely required for wiring to work??
Each endocrine gland is an integrating center.
Why will an object sink in fluid?
The penetration of the egg by a sperm takes place where?
Food and water provided to patients by mouth is the usual means of providing nutrition to patients.
What survives in a dry environment?
What determines the amount of daylight earth gets? 
Transportation is the moving of people or things from place to place.
Fires have burned off alot of the koala's habitat.
If soil is permeable then what easily flows through the soil?
Pollinators: Bees are the primary pollinators of fennel.
development by humans can cause animals to what?
Echinoderms have a unique water vascular system with tube feet.
Pollen grains are the small male reproductive bodies of plants that fertilize female flowers.
What can transform electricity?
what heats food?
Wind and rain cause what to become deeper and wider?
Passive immunity lasts when the antibodies survive in something containing what?
dropping an object into water causes vibrations in the water
An object has no mass at absolute zero.
Water vapor doing what causes clouds or rain?
What decreases when precipitation does?
if members of a species cannot what, then that species will likely become extinct?
Birds do what using the feathers that help them to fly?
Thermal conduction removes heat from the center.
What aspect is different for Bird and fish hearts
Minerals are the constituents of rocks, sediments, and soils.
If two balanced forces act on an object in opposite directions then that object is
How many legs do most arthropods have?
Gaia is our planet Earth.
Combustion is used to produce what
If thermal pollution is severe, then the entire aquatic ecosystem can be destroyed.
Erosion of rock makes nutrients available.
Pysical weathering is the mechanical breakdown of rocks.
what looks at long-term averages in an area over a long period of time?
Which rock is formed by deposition?
What causes rocks, dirt, and earth to combine?
Most invertebrates have a nervous system.
What do human beings use to move around?
Herbivores eat producers or other what?
Any tear, scrape, or cut in the skin is considered a wound.
And roller coasters work with gravity.
What can have a water vascular system with tube feet?
Because reptiles are vertebrates, they are chordates.
what happens to bacteria and algae that use sunlight to make food?
What is the force that causes objects to push or attract each other?
Bacteria can cause infection.
What can be used in wiring as a conductor?
if gas is heated then that gas will expand
What is used for cooking food by putting it over fire?
Populations of viruses do not grow through cell division because they are not cells.
Slowly leg muscles ease up and shoulders relax.
Climates with freeze and thaw promote mechanical weathering.
Plants exhibit phototropism, or growing toward a light source.
What needs to be lacking for a creature to change habitat?
Some viruses are also enclosed by an envelope of fat and protein molecules.
Where is food digested?
What is one way mammals learn to behave?
The liver is formed after cells for into
sporangia produce sports that develop into tiny what?
To the west is the Pacific Ocean.
Direct sunlight causes higher temperatures.
Menopause The Changes of Menopause Menopause marks the close of a woman's reproductive years.
Fetch is one way that what learns how to behave?
What is controlled by pushing on bike pedals?
Kids imitate adult actions and behaviors.
Clearly, middle adulthood is a time change and development.
marine and benthic species use pheromones to what?
Neurons are the cells of nerve tissue.
Erosion breaks the rock down again, and the cycle continues.
Meteorological drought refers to dry conditions related to climate.
Vegetable plants grow better in full sunlight.
what causes growth?
What force causes an object to change shape?
Each side of the heart is divided up into two chambers.
Every protein is a translated gene.
Fertilization increases genetic variation.
What can infect and destroy helper T cells?
Fishing pressure is relatively low due to a smaller human population.
Insects have more social behaviors because all what?
What do frogs breathe with?
Plants are not what?
What in an electric fan provides a cooling breeze?
Microscopic animals are called zooplankton.
Molecules are a group of atoms.
Moving what into muscles has a positive impact on a human's health?
Pollen is the gametophyte generation of seed plants.
What works by summing kinetic energy and potential energy?
what are the traces of a living thing formed from?
What can be caused by a decrease in the amount of precipitation?
what does not accept heat very well?
what breathe with gills as larvae and lungs as adults?
pushing with strokes on a bike cause that bike to what
Yard waste is recyclable and easy to recycle.
What do the building blocks of DNA bind together to form?
Germination occurs when the seedling root or radicle emerges from the seed coat.
what may lead to aggressive behaviors?
Graves disease is a thyroid gland that overproduces thyroid hormone.
Toxins or poisons are a stress.
a prism is used for refracting light
Water freezes into ice when cooled.
What does caffeine do?
In flowers, where do female gametophytes produce eggs?
How is food preserved?
Gravity pulling objects is gives an object what measurement?
Environmental pollution leads to more ill-health.
Freshwater biomes have water that contains little or no salt.
Rainbows are very pretty.
Garbage goes into Landfills.
What will make an increase in the sea level?
Most of the precipitation falls as snow.
Plants are sensitive to light.
Which of the following is a characteristic encoded in DNA?
when water freezes , that water expands
Animals have no cell walls.
What does recycling do to the environment?
Water is also a liquid.
Alternation of generations allows for different methods of producing:
If the cooling is sufficient, water vapor condenses into clouds.
All fish have gills .
what does lack of moisture in the air cause low amounts of?
What can cause harm to living things?
Fish and other animals eat the zooplankton.
Parasitic flatworms have evolved a close association with their hosts.
what can cause people to become distracted?
rocks become hot very what
Water that is not what can have a negative impact on the body?
Products that harm small animals can also protect what?
And as they move or run, their legs barely move.
What are copepods?
Ground Water and Streams Reduced replenishment of ground water also affects streams.
Smoking causes lung cancer.
Population Competition for food in larger animals leads to territory being established and defended.
an object will sink in what if it's more dense?
Phototropism means growing toward what?
Ants communicate with chemicals called pheromones.
Population is the number of people.
What is Jordan's average weather over time?
What caused the Himalayas to form?
If the moon was not present, what would happen to ocean currents?
Oxidation occurs readily during hot weather.
Food is needed for survival.
A pan is used for what by cooking food?
Repairing a car after a crash will become prohibitively expensive, and insurance rates will skyrocket.
Bears use the fat as energy over the winter hibernation.
Female monotremes lack ability to what?
The vascular cambria allows:
Flooding causes much of the hurricane damage.
Pigs are very intelligent animals.
a delta is formed by deposition of sediment at the mouth of a river by water fanning out
Where is moss the strongest?
Something studied by which scientists will die if it gets too cold?
Water is a compound of hydrogen and oxygen.
Fish include trout and other fish.
what do scientists study?
What is soil made from?
matter vibrating can cause sound
Glucose is used for energy by the cells of most organisms.
Aerobic respiration is an oxidative process which uses oxygen as a final electron acceptor.
Smoke from fires contains heat and the products of burning.
Where are deposits of gold found?
Some hurricanes produce torrential rains.
Decades have 10 years.
Influenza viruses are classified as orthomyxoviruses.
Genetic diseases are diseases that are inherited.
Plant roots begin to stabilize the soil against erosion.
What are chemical messengers?
the gravitational pull of the Moon on what causes the tides?
Oxygen acts as an aid to combustion.
An important nutrient commonly added to soil is nitrogen.
what is vesicle transport a form of?
Muscles can only what?
Sand dunes can be formed by
What is ice good at?
oil is formed by burial of decomposing algae being pushed down which increases what
what have varied life cycles?
What forms a zygote?
Individual with best survival alleles survive with the largest handicap.
What can destroy dunes?
Daily exercise, including weight lifting is a necessity.
Plants require what to grow?
Fungi have no chlorophyll.
If an atom loses an electron, it is then positive.
Ovum, or eggs, are stored in the ovaries.
what cause production of mutations in DNA of areas such as lungs
What have permeable skin that easily absorbs substances from the environment?
Also, camels conserve their water.
What is used to refract light?
A ruler is used for measuring
Where can mucus like organisms be found?
Viruses are studied by radiography and use of the electron microscope.
What does a light bulb require to produce light?
What occurs on the windward side of a mountain range?
An arthropod is a member of the Phylum Arthropoda.
What have similar membranes?
Host tissue penetration occurs to the point of vascular connectivity.
What is caused by weathering?
Radiation destroys cells and can cause genetic mutations.
Plants Plants are able to directly absorb energy from the sunlight, and store it in chemical bonds.
What uses lungs to breathe air?
what has forced extered on it if kicked?
Mushrooms are also fungi.
Along with simulating the climate, it is crucial to observe the climate.
what happens when a toaster converts electrical energy into heat energy?
Hair is a fiber that is found only in mammals.
sugar causes food to taste sweet
Calories measure the energy that leaves a gas to form what?
What transforms electrical energy to kinetic energy?
having no natural predators increases population size
Some leopards are melanistic, which produces a black fur.
Organic Wool Booties Sweet hand-knit booties help keep little feet warm.
Another mode of transportation is the city bus.
Hurricanes are made of wind.
Orchids often have fleshy pods and waxy leaves which can store water.
Plants that have adapted by altering their physical structure are called xerophytes .
what is a form of diffusion?
When wildfowl's territory is destroyed, they must do what in order to survive?
Plants infested are maple, poplar, basswood, and elm.
Another kind of plant is the fishhook cactus.
Snails are protected by a hard shell on their backs.
All sizes are total length.
Marine ecosystems also act as stabilizers of global systems especially our climate.
What does evolution require?
Animals use saturated fatty acids to create what?
Domestic water is heated by a solar-thermal water heater.
After a storm refraction of light occurs where the light is split into all different what
How is liquid propane used in hot air ballooning?
What is essential for change over time?
What is it called when an animal needs to replenish bodily water?
what can cause headaches
What do amphibians pump around the body in a complex manner?
How do fish breathe?
Barnacles are animals that live in the water.
when is fog common?
When the particles in the coal or the particles in the lamp filament get hot they start to vibrate.
Where do all adult echinoderms live?
what is important?
What are speleothems formed by?
Bacteria can cause what?
what happens when many muscles contract a little bit all at once?
Evaporation of the water leaves the salt on the surface.
What does chemical weathering cause iron to do?
what do plants use nectar to attract?
Which planet has a greater gravitational pull than earth?
what can a plant survive if it requires less water?
Lack of what in the air causes low amounts of rainfall?
Antibodies responds to molecules that the immune system recognizes as what to the body
Cells that divide uncontrollably may form what?
What conserves body heat with its fur?
what does biodiversity increase the productivity and stability of?
which kind of biomes usually have low salinity?
DNA is encoded information.
Vertebrates are animals that have what?
What sometimes falls as rain?
Gastropods are snails and slugs.
what loss causes a river to become deeper and wider
Eyes are used by animals for seeing by sensing what?
What are used for protecting the body from harmful substances?
Whenever it starts to give birth, it gives birth up to two to four babies offspring.
Flowers produce spores that can be what?
Most organisms live mainly in
what do some viruses live in a dormant state inside?
Temperature values are in degrees celsius.
Infection is a major pathway to ultimate amputation.
Like the Sun, stars generate light and heat through nuclear fusion.
Syngamy produces a diploid zygote.
Friction is a Force that opposes motion.
One of the major consequences of a drop in precipitation is 
light enters the pupil and makes it what?
Water elevations can increase rapidly, often resulting in severe local flooding.
What is common in high cold latitudes that can force soil particles together?
If cell death occurs it is called infarction .
A fault movement causes what to happen?
What do plants use nectar to attract?
Introns are found in eukaryotes.
infection can cause bodily tissues to swell
Any population has the potential to produce more offspring than the environment can support.
Where does sperm go after it leaves the male?
What may cause mammals to leave an enviroment?
What can be startling?
Along with the wind, birds are the primary transporters of berries and seed.
What can fungi decompose?
DNA DNA is deoxyribonucleic acid.
generating heat causes an object to lose what
rain causes erosion
The nature of sunlight Sunlight is electromagnetic energy.
What type of impact does cutting down trees have on jungles?
What is used to move people?
when is it often uncomfortable?
Most uncoated freesheet paper is entirely free of mechanical wood pulp.
Illness is a subjective experience of disease.
What causes animals to move to find shelter in another habitat?
Friction can cause fires to break out in a home due to what?
An octopus is a very intelligent invertebrate.
Normally, however, insect pheromones function to attract mates for reproduction.
Soil solids consist of mineral particles and organic matter.
What regulates metabolism?
What changes into coal when buried under soil and mud?
Alluvial aquifers are the result of erosion.
A possible downside of driving a car is
What must organisms that live in marine biomes adapt to?
Birds have bodies covered with feathers.
A light bulb will turn on when something generated from what flows to it?
Most prokaryotes are unicellular.
Fossils are the remains of ancient plant and animals or the traces of their activities.
What action produces much of the sand from coral?
Minerals are inorganic substances.
All what have a characteristic life cycle that are detailed with birth, growth, reproduction, death?
Mountain climbers come to brave the altitude and scale the peaks.
When the seasons change from the summer to the fall, symptoms of what will sometimes worsen?
What reduces the resources needed to make something?
Erosion is the movement of soil by water.
Examples of monotremes are the Platypus and Echidna.
What do animals use for energy storage?
Most invertebrates have a more complex nervous system.
Weather is a measurable change in earth's atmosphere.
What is deposited in flood plains when a river floods?
Hurricane rains can cause landslides and flash floods.
For big mountain background, check out the Himalayas .
What can cause something to have a change of state?
Each starfish arm is lined with tube feet.
Insulin and glucagon are produced by the pancreas.
Oxygen can be in short supply as the fire consumes it also.
If the plant is green, it is a producer.
What swims from male to female reproductive organs for fertilization?
Hormones control many cell activities, so they are very important for homeostasis.
Much of the circuit is in fact a comparator made with discrete transistors.
All trees have bark.
Beam balances, like a seesaw, measure an unknown mass by comparison to known masses.
Solid waste is called feces.
Sitting down has a positive impact on what?
Toxins are chemicals that are extremely poisonous.
Some bats eat meat and fish and frogs.
Water, in the form of rain, is the most effective agent of erosion.
Kittens can learn behavior through what?
Plants make food from what?
a light bulb is used for seeing when
What causes lung tumors?
what likes bigger and deeper water than found in ponds?
All what reproduce which includes alternation of generations?
Dangerous microbes are called pathogenic or disease causing.
What do dying cells do?
A car engine uses what to aid in combustion?
Social behavior is organized by social relationships.
What causes different shapes of the moon to appear?
What is called when plants grow toward the sun or an artificial light?
what is released by energy conversion?
What does a fire require to burn?
Reproductive investment was measured as seed mass, samara size, and dispersal ability.
Which direction are planets pulled?
Contraction of the muscle straightens the leg.
What increases the stability of ecosystems?
Snarls and barks are the sounds they make.
Cancer is uncontrolled cell division and growth.
Heterotrophs get food by eating other living things.
Communications with the outside world are via the lodge's cell phone.
Bivalved arthropods are especially common.
Hydrogen chloride is a gas.
When solar energy reaches the earth's surface it is absorbed and reradiated as heat.
Coal mines operated without electricity.
What does HIV damage?
A solar panel converts sunlight into what?
Beets tolerate mild freezes.
what is it when a gill converts from oxygen in water into oxygen in blood?
Arthropods Arthropods have jointed segmented exoskeletons.
what gives rise to offspring during the reproduction process?
If the parasite causes harm, it is a pathogen.
what can be relaxed by dilation?
secondhand smoke decreases what?
Lung cancer is the deadliest of all cancers.
Bees feed on nectar and pollen.
To learn more about the average weather, it is essential to:
Plants survive with the help of water.
For example, meristems regenerate after bisection.
Vapor pressure is about liquids boiling.
Coal and lignite are the lithified remains of plants.
Influenza virus causes widespread human disease.
What obtain their food from plants and cannot make their own food?
what kind of circulatory system do reptiles have?
Adults of what kind of animal have radial symmetry?
what do most types of have nervous systems?
Fossil fuels are burned in many what?
In what way do viruses not proliferate?
UV radiation increases the risk of getting skin cancer.
Immunodeficiency occurs when the immune system is not working properly.
Genes are inherited together if they are located on the same what?
What do animals try do in winter?
Sinkholes can be formed by
what can cause a tumor to form?
Fats A fat is another term for lipid.
Why do male gametes swim from male to female reproductive organs?
Rainbows have colors because water refracts different wavelengths of light slightly differently.
What happens when we receive less energy from the sun?
Cancer is a defect in regulation of the cell cycle.
Producing daughter cells of equal size often causes what?
Cancers exclude leukemia.
Female parents of what produce eggs inside the ovaries of flowers?
How do roundworms have offspring?
Earth is the only water planet.
What happens to the density of a gas when heated?
What breathes with the help of a diaphragm?
Plants are poisoned by herbicides, animals by pesticides.
What kind of species are seahorses?
Smoking increases the risk for lung cancer.
An ocean is a large body of salt water.
Crossing two living things with freckles causes who to have freckles?
Microorganisms associated with foods.
Thyroid hormones regulate the metabolic rate in the body.
Plant life has increased.
What are hosted, but don't usually kill their host?
Ethical ways can be learned through what
cells that divide which way may form masses of neoplastic origin?
Electron transport is the final stage of aerobic respiration.
Mating Ducks usually look for a mate or partner in winter.
Healthy roots can be due to what aspect of soil?
Ice crystals that are formed have a negative charge.
Vesicle transport requires energy, so it is also a form of active transport.
What happens to light rays in water?
what causes soil loss from soil erosion?
What feeds on plankton and nonliving organic matter?
What causes lightning?
what does the sun attract?
What do sunlight reflections in raindrops make?
Soil erosion causes crop yields to decrease.
When is a hemisphere tilted towards the sun?
Technology permits space travel and transportation.
Cars can run on pure ethanol or a mixture of petrol and ethanol.
What causes cancer?
Loud noises can cause animals to what?
People who are distracted are hazards.
decomposition increases the amount of nutrients in the soil
Beavers build dams that create ponds.
Flashlights can help children see better.
Environments reflect native habitats.
What can be dangerous in a car?
What does loud noises often do to mammals?
what will move to another area if their habitat can no longer support them?
Slime Molds Slime molds are another type of nuisance fungus.
Air friction gets rapidly larger as speed increases.
when electricity flows to a light bulb , the light bulb will turn on
Too much algae can deplete the water of oxygen, making it impossible for aquatic animals to survive.
What converts electrical energy into what we hear?
What can a small animal eat in a day for survival? 
things that have a what are the structural units of the kidneys?
bacteria can cause people to become ill
Butterflies bask to heat up their wing muscles for flight.
what vibrates?
What can change rock into marble?
Arteries in the body are able to carry what?
Aggression Aggression and violence often go together.
Like most theropods, the pelvis is propubic.
what contains genetic instructions?
Another source of energy is hydropower.
Legionnaires' disease is a type of pneumonia.
And the shape and look of the family has changed, as well.
Honey never spoils.
What causes solids to form?
Soil erosion Deforestation and excessive crop irrigation enhance soil erosion.
damming a river can cause a lake to form
Mammals have fur or hair.
What is formed when fog condenses over night?
When water vapor is in clouds and it gets cooler, what happens?
a mutation in the sex cells of a parent can cause a new trait to appear in the parent 's offspring
What forms in shallow tropical water?
Wind and rain contribute to a process that can change what?
Life Cycle Slime molds are like other fungi in that they reproduce by way of spores.
Fertilization of gametes produces a diploid zygote.
Veins generally carry deoxygenated blood.
Poultry can cause what?
Most water comes from precipitation.
Influenza, or the flu, is a contagious disease caused by a virus.
Mitosis is out of control due to what?
what do wind and rain cause?
what has freshwater that contains little or no salt?
In order to survive, animals require what?
What do fireworks convert chemical energy into?
Sugary foods and sweets are tempting.
By virtue of what can objects reflects light toward the eye?
Engines convert some energy of it to move the pistons (to work).
Greenhouses are used to what, using the energy from the sun?
Flowers produce spores that develop into what?
Some crustaceans feed on
Oxygen is essential for cellular respiration for what?
Something that who want pure consists of organic molecules?
An object is a real-world thing.
Division of the cytoplasm is known as cytokinesis .
Rainy clouds cause rain, and excess water vapor from clouds is the basis of rainbows.
What is a result of too much water entering an existing body of water?
extreme heat and pressure change rock into metamorphic rock
Inside of the eggs, the embryos grow by shedding their inelastic shell or exoskeleton.
What size are cells?
What does a refrigerator do?
Features of Earth Earth is a rocky world that is still very much alive and active.
Mammals breathe air with lungs.
What attracts pollinators?
Active immunity is when an immune response occurs after a germ produces what?
Fossil fuels like coal and oil are ancient biomass fuel.
what happens over time?
What type of bipedal dinosaurs are birds like?
Bees use the pollen from flowers as food.
Isometric exercise is a sustained contraction of large muscles, such as weight lifting.
what harms others?
lack of moisture in the air causes low amounts of rainfall
What balances the soil?
What do muscle contractions give the ability to happen?
What is attracted to the petals of the flower?
Oncogenes promote the division of cells with damaged DNA.
Another response to cold is shivering.
Common micro-organisms include fungi and bacteria.
Thus, sound is a wave in air .
Arteries generally carry blood full of
Something that is primarily electrostatic in origin causes water to expand when it what?
What is it called when rocks are broken down mechanically?
what can some genes be?
What process reads and regulates gene expression?
Animals who live in the forest have very soft, warm fur.
What is a common cause for the development of a lake bed?
Sharing information is the communication game.
Life without protein is impossible.
Tulips are heavy flowers.
What changes as a result of how much direct sunlight any given hemisphere is currently receiving?
Where is a zygote formed by sperm swimming to an egg?
Although electric rockets are efficient, their thrust is low.
Energy conservation is an important survival trait.
what do organisms use thirst for?
what affects rocks?
Radiation causes mutation.
Every year people die from hypothermia in Alaska when the temperature is above freezing.
What is when something changes from a gas into a liquid by reducing what is measured in temperature?
Pollination is mostly by honeybees, and wind pollination is limited.
Generally, white objects reflect more than dark ones.
Tree roots stabilize the soil and prevent soil erosion.
Secondary meristem is located within and around what?
Unique leaf adaptions on some plants have enabled them to do what?
Most mulches help to keep soil surfaces loose and receptive to water absorption.
Cold fronts cause what as they pass by?
smoking what decreases stamina?
What can cause something to move?
What helps hawks fly?
Reflection is the bouncing of light off of a reflective surface, such as a mirror.
what expands when it conducts heat?
For instance, glucose is a sugar.
Lymphocytes are the key cells involved in what
Throughout vinegar application, wear protective eye shields.
What can run through copper, causing it to heat up?
Primary growth results primarily from activity of the lateral meristems.
Conserving water can be used for the continuance of life in a what environment?
What happens when water vapors cool down?
What do aquatic animals breathe with?
What causes pollution?
What keeps mammals warm?
Kalanchoes are known for their waxy, thick, dark green leaves.
What do some parasitic creatures have special structures for?
having what is a cause of mortality
Earthworms by Casey Earthworms are invertebrates.
If a star has a mass larger than 25 solar masses, it collapses into a black hole.
Which animals have a circulatory system?
Chromosomes are molecules of DNA complexed with proteins.
What can increase the amount of nutrients in the soil?
Intense shivering and severe pain are natural body reflexes to cold water.
Producers are the base of the food chain.
what are clouds formed from?
What converts chemical energy into light and warmth for earth?
Acid helps dissolve collagen.
Fertilization As far as fertilization, timing is critical.
If pee doesn't leave the body through a sphincter very often what color will it be?
Eggs depend upon body warmth to incubate.
Marine Science Marine science is the study of the sea.
Exposure to which of the following can cause skin cancer?
Heat cramps are caused by sweating.
Cabbage is damn hard to dehydrate without turning brown.
What can most people survive only a few days away from?
What is rain that absorbs into the earth called?
Microbes are a major cause of disease in humans.
Cycles of freezing and thawing water cause 
what can produce electricity?
Fungi lack chlorophyll and are nonphotosynthetic.
What do plants require for their survival?
the Himalayas were formed from older what
What has a negative impact on the sinuses?
Releasing what can have a negative impact on an ecosystem?
What is a result of Earth being tilted on its axis
Mammals breathe with lungs.
Flagellates reproduce by binary fission.
All mammals have hair.
What lives in water that contains little or no salt?
What is a complex interaction shared by mammals and other animals?
Rain makes plants grow very tall.
What is used to indicate an object's size?
Finally, the veins carry the blood back to the heart.
what does evaporation lower?
Spikes are forceful the tidal waves of electric current.
Most plants continue to grow throughout their lives.
what can touch be used to detect?
Kinetic energy is converted to force.
_ cells divide more often than normal cells
what is the key to life for animals?
what have complex social behaviors?
Fish species include salmon and trout.
Where can slime molds be found besides rotting logs?
Lasers are powered by electricity.
The force of water against the seed coat causes what to emerge from a seed?
What does cold air replacing warm air cause?
Public transportation is a great way to move massive amounts of people from place to place.
What does the climate influence?
Bighorns have hollow hair that traps body heat.
If the property is damaged by a fire, natural disaster.
Desertification implies what?
What forms an image in water?
Tunicates differ strongly in appearance between the adult and larva.
What are chemical messengers that control sexual development and reproduction?
Light is essential to vision.
Hair grows from hair follicles within the skin.
Ice cubes melt in liquid water.
What is used to scrunch up foil?
Where do producers convert carbon dioxide, water, and solar energy into carbohydrates?
Hydropower requires beavers damming what?
something what to cilia help prokaryotes move.
What is contained in genes for coding proteins?
where do corals form large colonies?
What happens when soil is exposed to wind?
Megaspores develop into female gametophytes.
Biodiversity is the diversity of life.
Fuel has a chemical energy.
What in stars cause stars to produce bright glares
What can think?
How does the amount of daylight change in a location as the  season there changes to fall?
What does water turn into after boiling?
Generation is the making of electricity.
If water is scarce, animals and plants die.
Blood pH may become unbalanced if someone is 
When thermal conduction occurs, what always flows to what?
Most chemical weathering is caused by water.
What can fungi not do?
Most carcinogens cause cancer by producing changes in what?
What does rest have a positive impact on?
What decreases when the seasons change from summer to autumn?
Rock weathering and erosion produces a continuous stream of sediments that are laid down in layers.
Curses are spells that are often intended to cause harm to another person.
What temperature are icebergs?
Diversity within a species is essential for survival.
What is used to determine the age of fossils?
Fog is a cloud that forms on the ground.
exercise has a positive impact on a human 's health
For example, a black rooster and a white hen mate, and the resulting offspring are gray.
rotation cause what?
Which of the following can be used to move people across salt water?
For example, water is a substance.
Numerous sandbars and abundant woody debris provide valuable habitat for aquatic species.
Kinetic energy is the energy of moving objects.
Another readily available liquid manure is human urine.
And, of course, burning of gasoline produces toxic carbon monoxide.
a means of reproduction are commonly found in what?
What do all living things use for energy?
What feature of the landscape will result from hydropower?
What is formed by weathering?
What hormones can control the thyroid gland?
Bogs are characterized by cushion-like vegetation and an accumulation of peat.
Yep, lizards are chordates, just like humans.
Heat exhaustion, which precedes heat stroke, is a warning that the body is getting too hot.
What is the base unit of measurement for a balance?
How do cells grow and repair themselves?
Prolactin release is stimulated by TRH, the same hormone that stimulates TSH release.
Which of the following can travel longer than migrants each day?
For the food of bread is daily food.
When food and water decreases, what increases?
EVAPORATION Water changing into vapor and rising into the air.
What kind of plants produces their seeds in cones?
What happens when water moves soil in a river?
What can affect distribution locally?
What kind of cell division produces sex cells in animals?
With a change in temperature, what does a solid become?
Where do marine species mainly live?
This helps with sensing and maintaining body position:
fish use gills for what
Recycling conserves natural resources.
When they are burned, fossil fuels are consumed.
When does water expand?
A mutation in what of a parent can cause children to look very different from their parents?
What is formed when rocks break down?
Rest is essential to tissue healing.
What is fruit browning associated with?
What can convert fossil fuels into motion?
some what lack respiratory systems?
What containing photosynthetic pigments are found in the cells of plants and algae?
Dilation occurs when part of a cell that a what does not have relaxes.
What does boiling change a liquid into?
For dry ingredients, use a graduate measuring cup set.
What can cause a thermal conductor to become hot?
Evaporation and boiling are the same.
Sports is a good form of exercise.
Electricity is passed through the copper to magnetize the core.
How is sandstone formed?
Insects are the largest group of arthropods.
a car engine usually converts gasoline into motion and heat through combustion
Insulators are materials that prevent the flow of heat.
Sharks have as skeleton that contains
what makes a river wider?
Which process of gene abnormalities can mutations be detected?
What in soil converts atmospheric nitrogen into a form usable by plants?
What can increase the rate of metabolism in cells throughout the body?
HIV, like other viruses, needs a host to survive.
What does a plant require for its growth?
What feed on plant plankton?
Many believe the cause of smallpox to be what?
Cells vary in size and shape and can only be seen with what?
Temperatures fall towards the poles as the sun's rays are no longer what?
What happens to water poured on volcanic soil?
An object is buoyant when it is less dense than the fluid around it.
Air carries moisture that can condense.
What does fuel convert into?
Cells secrete acids and bases to maintain what?
What helps movement?
Seasonal flowering plants planted.
what are found in the salt water of the ocean?
What does reducing heat energy do to a vapor?
What can make photosynthesis more accessible to surrounding plants?
Penguins rely on their feathers for insulation.
What do cars use gas to produce?
What is it considered when menstruation stops before age 40?
When the river slows, it drops the sediment in a wide fan, a delta.
All pesticides that contain DDT are dangerous pesticides.
Polyps reproduce by asexual budding.
What are all fish?
Joints swell painfully.
coal is used to produce electricity by burning in coal-fire power stations
what has more complex cell division than prokayrotes
What comes with objects absorbing energy?
What can cause bent light to separate into colors?
Carbon dioxide is a pollutant.
An insect is a small animal with six legs.
all animals have growth that is what?
what do echinoids use to communicate?
Muscles around the urethra, called sphincter muscles, control the flow of urine out of the body.
When it rains, the rain moistens the soil.
An invertebrate is an animal that has no spine, or backbone.
What phylum are Nematodes apart of?
What can be used to estimate a forest's growth rate?
What can be the cause of lakes and ponds forming?
BEAR A bear is a big, furry mammal.
Earthquakes are movements in the Earth's crust.
What needs to grow for paper to be made?
porcupine can use its quills as a what
Sharpening a knife causes it to change what?
Extinct animals include the dodo bird and the saber-toothed tiger.
Folds are especially well defined in layered, or stratified rock.
_ are found mainly in the skin.
what affects a gas?
An embryo created in the fertility process is human life.
Once startled, the animal runs away often taking short leaps and emitting low cries.
Streams are smaller than something made from what?
Like frogs, salamanders are amphibians.
what causes sweat to be produced to cool a person down?
But suddenly a fog, a haze, began to form.
What species of female mammal lacks a uterus and vagina?
Geothermal heat is warm heat.
what uses cell division to grow and repair themselves?
fungi are the only organisms that can decompose what?
Ozone depletion results in higher levels of UV radiation reaching Earth.
How peripheral nerves work Peripheral nerves are made of bundles of nerve fibres, which can be regarded as living telephone wires.
Shallow tropical water is what?
what requires adding heat energy to cook?
Referee's whistle blows.
An object can be seen when it reflects something that comes from what?
When using an electric stove, match the pan size to the cooking element.
Animal migration is mystery of nature.
Where do organisms store energy?
Water, carbon dioxide, and nitrogen are all needed by living things.
What do prisms do to light?
What are bacteria and algae that use sunlight to make food?
Solar energy is clean energy .
What detect and respond to diurnal cycles?
The first tetrapods were
exercise increases a body 's strength
Pulmonologists treat the lungs and respiratory system.
All gravitational forces are attractive, there is no repulsive gravitational force.
Every insect has six legs, that's an insect.
What can be killed in food by irradiating it?
Wetlands are extremely important 
What cause disease in hosts?
if fossils of a water animal or plant are found in a place then that place used to be covered by water in the past
What is one way sediment can form?
What do catalysts do?
Objects become confusing, such as toasters, bathtubs, cars and forks.
About mushrooms Mushrooms are the fruiting structure of fungi.
Migration increases what?
Sharks breathe under water.
Pulmonologists treat lungs and respiratory systems.
Animals and plants compete for energy, water, and space.
Earthquake tremors also frequently shatter window glass miles from the epicenter.
what continues to grow throughout their lives?
Some arthropods have special excretory structures.
What will a bird die without?
Internal migration describes moves within a country.
Which of the following do humans not use to communicate?
Hot apparatus causes burns.
An antigen is a molecule of carbohydrate or protein.
If two balanced objects act on an object in opposite directions, the object will
Trisomy chromosomes are the most common chromosomal anomaly.
What relies on grass as a food source?
What is needed for the body to grow and remain healthy?
After the roots develop, the plants are transferred to soil to grow.
Plants grown included roses.
Construction and destruction Destruction is surface weathering , erosion , etc.
keeping food cold is used for keeping food fresh
A type of resting cell from what type of organism is often found in soil and water?
Humans, angels, animals, and all other living things are finite.
Inhaling and exhaling fumes of burning tobacco causes damage to what, directly?
Across the earth, land degradation is on the rise through erosion, salination, pollution, etc.
What would an animal use flowers for?
Chromosomes are coiled structures made of DNA and proteins.
Texture can be soft, fuzzy, rough, smooth, bumpy, hard, or slick.
eyes are used for seeing by animals by sensing light
hen the seasons change from the summer to the fall, sheep do what more?
What absorbs all visible light?
What is the liquid portion of the blood formed by?
If a planet becomes too hot, then it cannot maintain what?
Connective tissue is the common network for bodily systems and energy pathways.
What are invaluable for soil health?
What happens when the light switch is open?
Tropical fishes require warm water.
Plant reproduction requires what?
Rain water contains small particulates and acid.
what forms the liver?
Temperature falls from the equator to the poles.
What of lipids may contain other molecules as well?
Cancer begins when a cell begins dividing uncontrollably.
Which of the following uses energy that comes from body heat?
Flowers that grow from bulbs prefer cool water.
Hair is composed of the protein keratin.
Physical weathering breaks the rock into smaller pieces.
Reproduction is the process by which living things what?
What happens to the number of different organisms in a habitat from the poles to the equator?
Exercise does burn glucose from the blood and can lower the blood sugar.
Then nothing was heard but the bellows which fanned the fire of the furnace.
Athletes use it to promote stamina and endurance.
what do landslides do to land?
Most marine organisms live near the surface.
Alice's favorite animal is the giraffe.
Currently the state flower is the peony, which originates in China.
Many collagen fibrils come together and form a collagen and forma collagen fiber.
Smoking accelerates the aging process.
what does friendship usually precede?
The sense of touch is the sense by which pressure on the skin is perceived.
Soil Erosion Soil erosion is what happens when soil is washed or blown away.
Growth can be cancerous, disastrous, or growth can be healthy.
mechanical weathering is when rocks are broken down by mechanical means
What  can cause illness?
Gravitation is a universal force of attraction acting between all matter.
Oxygen is just one substance transported through our what
When water vapor cools, it condenses to form clouds.
Chloroplasts are the site of photosynthesis in plants only.
Gasoline mowers convert gasoline into something as bad as what when it comes to emissions?
Antibody production is triggered by antigens.
Acid rain is caused by pollution.
What senses pressure?
what causes animals to move to find shelter in another habitat?
the maglev train is used for moving what
where are there social groups called prides?
What could be used to separate salt from water
Bacteria are too small to be seen without a microscope.
When an animal moves , kinetic energy in starch is converted to 
Minute plants are known as phytoplankton.
How does a squid produce?
what is hormones controlling cell activities important to?
Endocrine glands secrete directly into the blood.
What is one way mammals are trained to behave properly in public settings?
Macroevolution is evolution over what time scale above the level of interbreeding populations?
The Moon has no atmosphere and no air.
Fossils are typically preserved when they are buried under many layers of sand and mud.
Most of the time, sweating can reduce body-heat.
Frequently their behavior is aggressively hostile.
Merchandise didn t work, or was broken.
Exercise causes muscles to contract.
Radioactive isotopes are commonly used to do what to the age of fossils?
When a fire breaks out in a home, the temperature in the room increases.
Peace is freedom from sickness and disease.
Aggression is behavior that is intentionally what?
What are coral reefs important to?
Moss can cause the breakdown of what?
Examples include influenza, rabies, HIV, and Herpes viruses.
What makes temperature vary?
what stores energy in its chemical bonds?
How do ants communicate?
What does a gasoline lawn mower convert gasoline into?
Water is usually the best fluid.
Heat and pressure cause a rock to metamorphize.
Hail, rain, sleet, and snow are referred to as precipitation .
if an animal lives under ground then that animal will be protected from a wild fire
What is made from fossil fuels?
Of course, computers are electronic devices, and as such, they deal in electrical terms.
What uses sound for communication?
What will be the result of female sperm fusing with an egg to form a diploid zygote?
Doctors call such tissue swelling edema.
Green plants make food from 
Magnets attract and repel.
Echinoderms have a hydraulic system of locomotion called the water vascular system.
Bivalve molluscs are very common.
Evolution is the study of living things with time.
Some plants are deadly poisonous .
Among the threats to food and water safety are microorganisms such as bacteria.
Most types of what are more dense than water?
What can be stored in sedimentary rock for millions of years?
What is the most important part of mechanical weathering?
what allows molecules to travel to control many cell activities
the moon revolving around the Earth causes what?
Many light sources such as the sun and most artificial lights produce unpolarized light.
Female gametophytes produce eggs inside what part of flowers?
Most people can survive only a few days without what?
Viruses infect and live inside the cells of living organisms.
Machines mow down forests much as a lawn mower cuts grass.
Rivers become silted, plains flooded.
What are fungi?
Some winds are destructive.
what does earth orbit to cause the seasons to change?
Dogs only sweat from the bottoms of their feet, the only way they can discharge heat is by panting.
What does vegetation change into after being buried under soil?
Sleeping at night and working during the day is determined by what thing happening?
a greenhouse is used to protect plants by doing what?
When a substance melts, it changes phase from a solid to a liquid by the application of heat.
Plants need what?
If you are using a measuring cup for sugar, what would you be measuring?
What organism uses their sense of smell to find a mate?
what has a positive impact on plants
High pressure systems can cause what?
Population size influences the chances of what within a species?
Cells are organized into tissues to what?
Animals eat plants to make energy.
Where do platypus females construct their homes for egg laying?
Autotrophs absorb sunlight energy and transfer inorganic mineral nutrients into organic molecules.
Aids sleep and rest.
DNA is used to transmit characteristics from parents to offspring.
What does aluminum do when it heats up?
Food is chemical energy.
What does the immune response produce?
erosion can cause a landslide
What may improve health?
Any infection can cause death.
Terrapins are freshwater turtles.
Preventing the transfer of heat from an animal 's body causes that animal to keep what?
What does a greenhouse help plants do?
Fission releases energy and neutrons.
Generally the most effective way for animals to keep cool in hot weather is by sweating.
stalactites are formed by deposition
Without a blood supply, people are in danger of dying.
what occurs when cells walls relax?
What can cause golf clubs to repel each other?
An ocean is a salt water habitat.
When ice is what above its melting point that is melting.
Grape seeds are dispersed by animals.
Internal combustion engines create friction.
The San Andreas is a "transform fault" that marks the boundary between two tectonic plates --  the North American and the Pacific.
Adult starfish have what?
Standard filaments are made of tungsten.
Size is measured by width and length.
Mynah birds are the main competing species for nest holes.
What do fungi lack that make them unable to make food as producers can?
Among the most destructive types of debris flows are those that accompany volcanic eruptions.
Cells with damaged DNA are more likely to divide when exposed to what?
Most modern gymnosperms are trees covered in what?
Another such HPV antigen is the E6 antigen.
What do producers use to make food?
What will increase the amount of heat that is transferred from the body?
Enzyme mechanisms Enzymes are biological catalysts.
If the state of matter is changed, as in a liquid to a gas, it is called a change of state.
what are found in algae?
Changes in what are essential for evolution to occur.
Fertilizers add nutrients to the soil.
What does skin help keep out?
Airplanes are responsible for air, noise, and water pollution.
Cartilage is a tough tissue that contains a protein called collagen.
What keeps itself warm naturally in the winter?
Death is attributed to the infirmities of old age.
Most sponges are hermaphroditic, meaning that a single organism has both eggs and sperm.
What step are bees essential in during the sexual reproduction of plants?
What can DNA do?
vertebrates have a complete digestive system and a closed what?
Condensation is the reverse of vaporization , or change from liquid to gas.
Completing a circuit causes fan's blades to what?
Which of the following can make people sick?
Larger animals dominate in competition for food, mating partners, and nesting space.
Limestone is an organic, sedimentary rock.
Immunization in a pregnant woman produces both active and passive immunity in the fetus.
Floods can destroy property and kill people.
What does something used for protecting plants by killing insects require?
what does metal do when cooling?
How do flashlights produce light?
Pathogens induce a disease in their host.
What causes growth sometimes?
Nocturnal animals' eyes are very light sensitive.
Instructional techniques are adapted to accommodate differences.
What can humans do for other organisms?
beads of water are formed by water vapor condensing
Some smallpox viruses are maintained in laboratories.
Cell division is more complex in organisms with what?
Light enters the eye through the pupil, and the pupil is made larger or smaller by the iris.
Animals may not survive in new location.
Hooded vultures are silent birds.
What structures are in the cytoplasm where proteins are made?
Squirrels hide and sleep in a secret warm place all winter.
Food is the ideal source of nutrients.
A bulb uses electrical energy to produce:
What does tilt cause on Earth?
What aren't diseases caused by?
Food irradiation is one tool for improving food safety by killing pathogenic microorganisms.
Tri-fold cards fold into three sections.
Frogs start out life in ponds and puddles.
Fossils are preserved original remains or preserved evidence of plants and animals.
Ozone depletion causes worldwide temperature what?
condensation is when change from a gas into a liquid by reducing heat energy
Huge colonies of hard corals form coral reefs .
All oaks are plants.
What can extend the shelf life of food?
Woodlands benefit from what?
What causes landslides?
By far the mightiest of the great rivers is the Amazon .
Enveloped viruses make their own membranes.
Finally, gold is a very dense material.
Black hole excites astronomers.
To improve soil, add several top-dressings of dirt or compost.
Electricity is used for energy by what?
Generators convert what into a powerful energy source?
Maybe the fillings evaporated during steaming.
hormones produced at the base of the what control other endocrine glands
Most ecosystems need what?
Which part of the hurricane causes the most damage? 
What use their eyes to sense light so they can see?
if an object is what of a Ceramic then that object has the properties of Ceramic
White fur is warmer than colored fur.
Then the bull sits down to rest.
People of all ages and activity levels perspire or sweat.
The expulsion of semen occurs when what propels sperm from the epididymes?
Biomass is the total mass of organisms at a trophic level.
Seed pods and seeds can be transported by floodwater or eaten by animals and spread in their manure.
Light source is an ultra-bright, unbreakable LED Bulb.
Forests stabilize what influences what growth?
Black holes are formed from _ stars.
Ozone Ozone is a natural component of the atmosphere.
what does the average number of individuals per unit of area do?
Using radioactive gamma ray sources, existing microorganisms in food can be what?
evolution is the change in characteristics of what over time?
What do organisms require to grow?
The force of water against the seed coat causes
Close to 200,000 people drink that water.
Ozone is a form of oxygen that absorbs damaging UV radiation.
All animals emit pheromones to mate.
What attracts bees to the flower?
Cold Fronts Cold Fronts Cold fronts are usually associated with depressions .
What can the movement of tectonic plates do?
sound can be used for communication by animals
Some precipitation that falls on land may soak in, becoming a breeding place for what?
Applying high temperature in the presence of what can cause an object to burn/
Avian species are less likely to become extinct if they are common across large ranges.
Keeping food cold prevents
Because the daylight changes with the seasons, ActiveEarth does, too.
What can feed at more than one trophic level?
a planet rotating causes cycles of day and night on that planet
what does the digestive system break food into for the body?
What is consumed by people worldwide?
what can a mirror be used to reflect?
All sea turtle eat marine animals such as sponges, marine worms and molluscs.
Then there's the big lake, Lake Superior, with all it's bays and tributaries.
What types of animals reproduce sexually?
Frogs breathe with their lungs and skin.
Active transport involves movement of substances against a chemical gradient.
Several plant species require flooding for seeding establishment.
Light enters the camera through the lens and is reflected upward by the mirror to the ground glass.
Once the brain interprets the messages, the sight process is completed.
What are decollate snails?
Chickens can sometimes be noisy animals.
What die quickly if their oxygen supply is cut off?
the bones of what can be found to signify that place used to be covered by water?
Almost half the body heat lost in cold conditions escapes from the head.
Splitting into what is the final stage of cell division in eukaryotes as well as prokaryotes?
What is formed by rivers?
What does a greenhouse protect plants from?
Electric energy is stored in batteries.
Cattle can cause soil erosion.
Soil erosion, or rather soil movement, is a natural process.
Cell division is more complex in eukaryotes than prokaryotes.
Enhances sleep patterns and supports restful sleep.
Plants that are adapted to very dry environments are called xerophytes.
Fire makes heat.
recycling reduces the resources needed to make something
What happens when light hits water?
Humans have collected and grown what for food for thousands of years?
Plants release oxygen during the day but not during the night.
What helps humans see?
Frequency is the measurable rate of that vibration.
Ocean tides enter and leave the Bay twice a day.
Cold air advancing on warm air cause what?
What semen is, is a carrier for the sperm contained in it.
Chromosomes consist of DNA and protein.
Mass extinction occurs in the ice age and global warming periods.
Animals behave in a variety of ways which enhance their chances of survival and reproduction.
How is ice made?
Feathers help birds fly and provide insulation.
the egg implants itself in the uterus after sperm does what?
What does the fishhook cactus release during the day but not during the night.
Microtubules form part of the mitotic spindle that moves the chromosomes during cell division.
Many ethologists capture their observations on videotape or audio tape.
All bears are covered with heavy fur.
Trees are still used for fuel in some places.
Climate Jordan's climate is dry and hot.
If an object is at equilibrium, then the forces are balanced.
What has photosynthetic organs which grow when it does?
All light is energy, which is eventually absorbed and turned into heat.
What causes weather changes on Earth? 
A drought dehydrates an entire what?
Humans have collected and grown foods rich in what for thousands of years?
Cars and gasoline-burning engines are large sources of emissions.
How do animals dissipate body heat?
what does dropping an object into water cause?
Androgens are male sex hormones.
If cold air replaces warm air, it is called a cold front.
What do organisms require for growth?
What are humans?
Passive immunity lasts only as long as the antibodies survive in body fluids.
Vaccination  produces
What does gravity pull objects closer to?
What is used to adjust controls to regulate temperature?
Fronts boundaries between air masses Fronts are boundaries between air masses .
what is used to make an animal realize that it needs to replenish from a natural drinkable source
RNA's role in assembling a diverse collection of proteins is a product of evolution.
Objects made from iron and steel have the property of magnetism.
During Urination Dog's urine is used as a scent marker for other dogs.
Tobacco companies make cigarettes.
Dinosaur bones, like many other artifacts, are fossilized.
What are used to move people?
For biological catalysts to maintain proper pH, what is needed to maintain proper pH?
What  by spores develop into tiny, heart-shaped gametophytes?
What can fats consist of?
Something in the polyp stage can form large colonies in shallow tropical what?
Hurricanes can cause local flooding, flash flooding, or coastal flooding.
An adaptive trait helps an organism survive in a particular environment.
What might have an envelope of proteins and enzymes?
What is when rocks are broken down?
What is used for absorbing light energy by plants ?
How does energy get wasted in a wire?
Building housing developments usually requires replacing what?
Which of the following can process the movement of charges into light and heat energy?
Warmth generated by staff and machinery heats the air, causing it to rise.
The Earth being tilted on its axis causes ones side to receive less 
cellular respiration is when a cell converts from oxygen and carbohydrates into carbon dioxide, water, and energy
What is the process of organized images falling on the retina?
What powers a light bulb?
what does condensation alter?
Food is digested and absorbed in the small intestine.
Muscles require substances transported in the body by
Foods rich in chlorine are mushrooms, parsley, sweet potato, rhubarb, and especially tomato.
Fires with good air circulation will what?
riding a bike does not cause pollution
Migrants typically travel long distances.
What is most often caused by exposure to solid particles and gases?
What sort of molecules are used for absorbing light energy by plants?
What can polar bears do to generate heat?
Mass Amount of matter an object contains.
Dendrochronologist: A person who studies tree ring growth.
Autumn brings the changing of the seasons.
Blood vessels dilate, the flow of blood to the skin increases and the muscles relax.
What continues to grow throughout their lives?
Although some of Kew's butterflies are fairly sedentary, others are great migrants.
Alerting devices inform a person when the doorbell rings, alarm clock sounds, or telephone rings.
what provides food for themselves and other organisms?
Any time water and carbon dioxide mix, carbonic acid is the result.
If the pH level is higher or lower, aquatic life is endangered.
Fire is a natural energy source which provides heat, light and energy.
ACID RAIN Acid rain is polluted and harmful to the environment.
What converts chemical energy into what we hear?
Some parasites kill their host, but most do not.
most insects have a what?
Electrical fields result from electrical devices and televisions.
Offspring appear in litters.
Most reptiles have good eyesight and a keen sense of smell.
What are used to see bacteria by biologists by making them appear bigger?
Algae Algae Green algae are the simplest of green plants.
Pinions tolerate drought and alkaline soil, but prefer loose, well-drained soils.
Tobacco includes cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, and more.
Inside the eye, at the back, is the retina.
What can be used to damage plants?
An inherited mutation is a mistake in the gene.
Fertilizers are food for the plant.
What helps people see?
Biomes are simply environments that have some things in common.
The Himalayas were formed by what?
Batteries convert chemical energy into electrical energy.
Decreasing the amount of light results in lower temperatures allowing a potential increase of what?
Friction causes the decline of speed.
the Earth revolving around the Sun causes the seasons to change on its axis
Geologists use fossils to determine the age of the rock layer that it was found in.
Some flowers become an adaptation for what?
What can separate salt from water?
How do frogs absorb oxygen?
Body fluids are lost during fevers because of sweating.
Students locate different types of nerve receptors in their skin.
Genes are part of the chromosomes and coded for on the DNA strands.
Male gametes are sperm.
SNPs involve polymorphisms at the single nucleotide level.
Growth in girth is caused by other meristems, called secondary meristems.
Heat always flow from warmer to cooler objects .
Another nutrient to be concerned with is iron.
Solid waste is stored in landfills.
What does irradiating food do?
what can soil be depleted of?
which of the following are a type of exercise?
With lots of rain and a warm climate, plants grow well.
Finally, lead is toxic.
Fur and feathers help keep some animals warm during the harsh winter.
Beaks show a lot of variation and specialization for different functions.
What is burning wood used for?
What do viruses contain?
What produces insulin?
Bound and free ribosomes are structurally identical and interchangeable.
What can have motility?
Summer is a bold season.
Grasses and other herbaceous plants are preferred food.
Many cacti have corrugated stems which can expand quickly if water becomes available.
Which of the following has the most complex nervous system?
Alcohol increases degradation and excretion.
fertilization takes place inside of what kind of females?
Pollination is an intricate series of events which ultimately results in plant reproduction.
what process must occur to form clouds?
When that occurs, several things happen.
An automobile acquires the energy for motion from
What produces a hormone that helps cells absorb sugar from the blood?
Materials that prevent the flow of heat can be used for keeping what?
Pheromones are a sub-category of semiochemicals.
When a compound is unbalanced it becomes unbalanced and unstable.
what helps insulate and protect the body?
Fatty acids and glucose are the body's primary energy sources.
Major components of the respiratory system are the lungs, trachea, nose, and the cell.
Water fills the oceans of the world up to sea-level making it a liquid, a type of fluid.
Earthworms are invaluble for soil health.
what describes behaviors that improve fitness?
Earthquakes are caused by movements on faults.
what result in animals moving to another area
Seed dispersal is usually by birds.
Tumors are a collection of cancer what?
Recycled products do what?
what is usually larger than streams?
What is influenza caused by?
Removing what from food will preserve it?
what do manatees do?
Evolution relies on random chance acts to cause mutations.
Lamps convert electrical energy to electromagnetic radiation or light.
the looseness of soil increases the amount of oxygen in that soil
Airplanes like Boeing 747 can take off and land on the airport.
When the sound waves hit the eardrum in the middle ear, the eardrum starts to vibrate.
Electrical current running through a wire causes an increase in what?
being exposed to wind can cause erosion of soil
Objects are magnified to be able to see small details.
Another critical protein in regulating the cell cycle is the tumor suppressor protein p53 .
Rocks interacting with wind produces
Eating usually has what impact on an organism?
Function of wetlands and Great Lakes wetlands.
what adults are barrel-shaped?
An earthquake is the shaking of the crust.
Weathered rock is called saprolite .
Endocrinology is the study of organs that produce hormones involved in fertility and reproduction.
Air is a gas, and air has pressure.
Something that when absorbed causes objects to heat take how long to cross to Earth?
Alerting devices inform a person when they convert electrical energy into what
What helps aerate soil, which is also good for plants?
what may become hot when exposed to heat?
Ice wedging is extremely effective in a moist but cold climate.
Jellyfish and insects are invertebrates.
What do plants need to develop?
What contributes to global warming?
What is a diploid zygote the result of?
All redwoods have a characteristic life cycle that includes what?
Where in the plant does growth in width or girth originate?
Change happens to what of a species in response to changes in the environment?
trout are found in places generally bigger and deeper than what
Over medium heat, scramble the eggs.
Often habitat is destroyed for agriculture.
Skin pressure receptors announce that the feet are on the ground or the buttocks are on a chair.
fat is used to keep animals warm
What breaks rocks down?
Toxic carbon monoxide is produced by what?
Without an ample supply of water to drink, people become dehydrated.
Hemoglobin transports oxygen in blood.
Corals are tiny flower-like animals that live in colonies.
Natural selection is the mechanism of evolution.
Heat is very important in cooking.
Chemical changes are referred to as a chemical reaction.
Some cancers are fatal.
What do phase changes not change?
Protein is a chain of amino acids .
Mirrors cause
What help prokaryotes move?
All chemical reactions require a form of what to get started?
Bikes and tricycles are also decorated.
What cannot make their own food?
Ice, on the other hand, is a solid.
What are on the ocean floor?
Water is heated to the boiling point and changes to steam.
What do cells secrete to maintain the proper pH for enzymes to work?
Force is a push or a pull.
Water is the best thirst quencher.
Alopecia Hair loss is referred to as alopecia.
Malnutrition , particularly with lack of protein , can cause acquired immunodeficiency.
Mountains are formed from folds that bend upward.
What do animals use to find a mate?
What can lead to a dog demonstrating a deep grumbling bark?
All lizards are reptiles.
Fever is merely a symptom of illness.
Nutrients of the host are most likely absorbed through the body surface of the parasite.
Molasses Sugar Molasses Sugar is the darkest sugar of all.
P16 is a regulator of the cell division cycle.
Organisms use fat to what?
Hair follicles are capable of producing hair of various thickness and colors.
Balancing connotes a set of scales.
All mammals are animals.
what can chemical splashing case harm to?
What burrows help aerate soil, which is also good for plants?
what are a class of 4 legged animals that produce amniotic eggs
What has hair?
What type of object will heat the most
Earthy sediment of fine particles of rock and soil suspended in and carried by water.
Electrical power in a circuit is equal to the product of the current and voltage in that circuit.
when a body of water receives more water than it can hold , a flood occurs
All cells have a plasma membrane.
what do microbes form?
Some bacteria form resistant cells called endospores.
A significant evolutionary response might be the result of what?
Viruses are so small that they can be seen only with an electron microscope.
what animals have regions that do not code for proteins?
Water moving sediment downstream can form
Fire can turn which solid into liquid water?
Plants with Asexual Reproduction Plants with asexual reproduction have no gamete fusion.
What can be used to separate a solute from a solvent in a solution?
Fiber optics works by carrying light along hair-thin filaments of glass.
What causes weathering?
What type of hormones are produced and controlled in the glands?
Where might you find tectonic plates being pushed together?
What do gametes mate into?
Kinetic energy in starch is converted into chemical energy in the muscles.
Seasons are caused by the tilt of the earth's axis.
Plants feed themselves through the process called photosynthesis.
Bryophytes are mosses, liverworts, and hornworts.
Why do animals sleep through winter?
A dill pickle absorbs the vinegar it is soaked in.
Digestion is the process of breaking down food into components the body can absorb.
After a six month gestation, a female gives birth to a single offspring, sometimes to twins.
Metals conduct heat well.
Coral reefs are homes to thousands of different kinds of fish, sponges, algae, and mollusks.
Polyps do not use:
Sounds are vibrations in air.
Antigens are found on cancer cells and the cells of transplanted organs.
Mussels have what?
How do animals learn how to be assertive?
Marine biomes are found in large bodies of what?
What group do insects belong to?
Climate Taiwan's climate is subtropical.
Influenza viruses mutate.
Floods result from an overabundance of rainfall, droughts from a lack of rainfall.
Under the pressure of the innumerable wedges of ice, the rock cracks.
What decreases stamina?
The wind has a negative impact on what?
Dehydration preserves foods by removing moisture.
An island is land surrounded by water.
Plants need air, plants need air.
If there is an increase in UV radiation, the risks go up for all types of skin cancer.
_ contribute to soils.
Acid rain is precipitation which pH is 5.7 or lower.
Many dams along rivers and creeks help prevent floods.
deoxygenated blood is carried where?
Water which moves or flows is a force.
Nephrons are the structural and functional units of the kidneys.
Flat spots on rail car wheels can cause what to startle?
What does DNA store?
Electricity travels in currents.
What produces less heat when cooking?
Viruses are not cells.
Animals and humans eat plants for their nutrients.
Coral Reefs Coral reefs are threatened.
Many animals migrate, traveling to avoid bad weather, to find food, or to reproduce.
Many people smoke cigarettes.
Mammals are animals with Fur.
Birds evolved from a group of bipedal dinosaurs called theropods.
What is used to determine the age of plants or animals buried rapidly by sediment?
How do ost frogs breathe as tadpoles?
Butterflies pollinate plants as they feed on nectar.
Pesticide A pesticide is an agent that is used to control pests.
The movement of this body aids in the formation of soil.
Plants get their energy from the sun.
What can low iron cause?
Echolocation is similar to sonar.
What do most streams start with?
All mammals are warm-blooded.
What can be used for hydration?
During the flowering cycle they receive fewer hours of light.
Solar energy is a renewable resource .
Pollination is the transfer of pollen grains to a stigma.
An anion is a negatively charged atom.
Earth orbiting the Sun causes changes to what?
Sleep has what impact on health?
What is formed by one substance being dissolved in another substance?
What must be overcome when pushing on bike pedals?
If it's raining AND barometer is steady, then predict rain.
Metal atoms are ionized in an intense plasma.
Too little rain causes a drought.
What do ecosystems use as energy?
Fish, such as tuna, is a high protein food.
what have a relatively complex circulatory system with three-chambered heart?
If an molecule contains carbon, it is called organic.
Cells cannot survive without oxygen.
what falls from lower to higher altitudes?
if an object is in the sunlight then that object will absorb solar energy
Food is converted into glucose.
Hats The number area for heat loss on the body is the head.
What can regrow segments?
Range of motion is the natural distance and direction of movement of a joint.
what are able to increase the amount of nutrients in the soil
What kind of rock is formed by deposition?
Corals Corals are in the polyp stage.
Epilepsy and splay leg are located on the same what?
What causes water to become steam?
Boiling water can cause burns.
Bacteria, fungi and viruses invade the host and cause disease.
Erosion of soil has what impact on a forest?
Biomes are global ecosystems.
Many of foods that humans eat are cooked, recooked, and then warmed up.
Gravity can exert forces that cause friction in rocks and ice.
Conservation of water follows conservation of sodium.
Energy enters ecosystems in the form of sunlight or chemical compounds.
Leaves make food for the plant.
Coral reefs provide food and shelter to many ocean organisms.
A greenhouse is used to protect angiosperms how?
An animal's outer shell protects internal organs and:
What can cause respiratory issues?
What decomposes beech?
Day and night temperatures varied widely.
Insects are the natural pollinators.
Some viruses have an envelope of
the mass of an object causes the what exerted by that object?
Carbon monoxide and cyanide are poisons.
What enhances the effects of erosion?
Evolution causes species to change over time.
electrical power does what when it runs through the circuit?
mutations may change the structure of the what of DNA?
When a cooler object touches a warmer object it
How do cucumbers come from flowers?
Endocrine hormones travel through the what in something that runs like water?
A working refrigerator is good protection from what?
Cars, see Automobiles.
What does angiosperm reproduction require?
What may live in large colonies?
what energy is used for heating a building?
Underground caves and caverns pose an exciting adventure to many.
What can regrow segments that break off?
Fault zones are plates in the earth that slide and collide.
Magma that cools slowly deep below the surface produces coarse-grained intrusive igneous rocks.
What happens to half of Earth when it tilts towards the Sun ?
What is carried toward the heart?
what is stimulated by the pituitary gland to produce thyroid-stimulating hormone?
Vinegar, battery acid, and wine are acids.
Fungi decompose dead plant and animal matter.
And drinking water is something that people just have to have.
Planets move in elliptical orbits.
What has no backbone?
Black objects absorb all different wavelengths of light.
What types of biomes are found in the Pacific?
Light reveals what lies hidden in darkness.
What can be used as an energy source by devices?
Catalysts require proper what to work?
Almost all birds use shivering as a short term adjustment to the cold.
Most buried garbage has what impact on the environment?
Where do flowers come from?
what moves to find shelter in another habitat because of habitat destruction?
Competition may lead to release of 
Water that flows into storm drains or sewers ends up in the nearest water body.
Excitotoxicity kills some neurons.
What is coal made out of?
What treatment can be used in treating pneumonia?
Proteins are needed for cell building.
what do plants lose to the atmosphere?
Hoover Dam, the first dam on the Colorado River below Grand Canyon, was built between 1931 and 1935.
Check the fire alarm's batteries the first of each month.
what converts carbon dioxide, water, and solar energy into carbohydrates for themselves?
Birds sing to defend territories and attract mates.
Stratified rock forms what?
Inside the egg, the developing rattlesnake is nourished by the yolk of the egg.
Deposit feeders ingest sediment and extract food particles.
What found in a place shows that animal or plant used to live in that place?
Electric power is ready to use at the flip of a switch.
_ are passed from lower to higher trophic levels
What can cause plants to die?
what sees a positive impact on root growth due to looseness of soil?
A toaster converts electrical energy into what for toasting?
What can keep a home warm?
Students test the effect of a magnet on various metal objects.
What does logging cause animals to do?
What has a positive impact on plants?
what causes pollution?
They produce oxygen as a by-product of photosynthesis.
Movement is thought in motion.
Drought can be caused by less than normal rainfall.
What is light used for?
Crustaceans and insects have what special structures?
what exhibits courtship as a behavior?
Sperm motility is the ability of the sperm to move.
What does carpooling lead to?
What causes tides?
Deserts are usually very, very dry.
Most of the tectonic activity associated with plate tectonics occurs at or near plate margins.
competition may cause animals to fight towards members of their own species
what do prisms refract?
Antihistamines reduce swelling in mucous membranes and soft tissues.
Opposite what cause something to move?
Animals will relocate in response to 
Ice wedging is the most important form of mechanical weathering.
Sunlight heats the ground, warming it up.
Cross-pollination increases
What would happen if all geese could not reproduce?
Fertilizers help plants grow.
what is forced against a seed coat causing the root to emerge?
Competition is fierce and resources are scarce.
Lights illuminate the blackness.
Food is cooked by the steam and heat.
Traits are initiated by mutation and recombination.
Social aggression is characterized by a dog that demonstrates a deep grumbling bark.
what causes day and night cycles on a planet?
Chordates Chordates Chordates include fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals.
A neutral atom that loses an electron becomes  what?
DNA is found in what?
Populations Populations are subsets of a species.
As the warm air cools, it forms rain clouds called cumulonimbus clouds or thunderclouds.
For example, carrots and beets are roots.
Penguins keep warm with layers of insulation.
Lack of what can be damaging or disastrous?
What do aquatic animals require to survive?
Populations can also be limited by predation.
For example, a fibroid is a tumor, a wart is a tumor, and cancers are tumors.
What is one way to lower the freezing point of water?
An injured animal can be very dangerous.
What can contain little to no salt?
Moisture is needed for bacterial decomposition.
Yeasts reproduce by forming spores or by budding.
Gametes in males are called sperm, and in women commonly referred to as eggs.
Terrestrial biomes are defined by their plant life.
Lift decreases with altitude.
A switch is used to start the what of electric charge in an electrical circuit?
Sunburns cause the skin to become red and painful to the touch.
What has a centralized nervous system with a brain?
Animals are inefficient energy converters.
Fertilization takes place inside the female organism.
Wave action causes?
Most strokes occur when a blood clot blocks an artery that carries oxygenated blood to the brain.
what causes bodies of water to increase?
Bodily functions are controlled by hormones that travel through what?
What is consumed by the most people worldwide?
What is formed when solvants are dissolved?
What do fungi do to leaves
Where can salamanders move?
what can be detected clinically?
Weights A measure of the heaviness or mass of an object is the object's weight.
What causes new traits because of reproduction?
global warming is when worldwide temperature increases
the number of rings in a tree trunk can be used to estimate the age of the tree
Crop growth can be negatively impacted by
Mammals have a four-chambered heart.
Goats are small non-predatory mammals.
What can smallpox cause?
Audible ground fireworks, such as firecrackers and chasers, are illegal in Kentucky.
Solar panels have what in common with green plants?
Animals act through their instincts for survival.
All plants are trees.
Which of the following can decrease stamina?
killing microorganisms in food is important to
What are used as a rudder by aquatic animals?
healing requires rest
what smooths over long periods of time due to contact?
An earthquake hits San Francisco causing major damage.
What does wood need to be used in a stove?
The chemical disintegration of rocks causes iron in rocks to what?
Cancer is a disease in which cells divide out of control.
Tobacco is grown for cigarette factories.
a point what allows for both asexual and sexual reproduction?
Sunlight is delivered in small packets of energy called photons.
what uses energy and inorganic molecules to make food?
Freshwater biomes have suffered mainly from pollution.
a pan is used for cooking food by heating food in it on a stove
What does a tape measure do?
what growth does climate influence?
Plants cell walls are made of 
Most mammals can be active even in cold weather because they are warm-blooded.
Caffeine is a central nervous system stimulant.
a rubber band snapping causes the particles in the rubber band to what?
What swims to female reproductive organs for fertilization?
Examples of gametes are ova and spermatozoa.
Soil can be depleted of which of the following?
An abalone is a shellfish or mollusk.
What increases the productivity and stability of the entire global system?
An ordinary ice road is therefore severely damaged by cracks induced by the traffic.
What happens as cells lose their ability to divide?
If you want to use a gasoline engine, what must you do with the gasoline?
Most soil organisms are responsible for decomposition and nutrient cycling.
Fossil fuel pollution can cause asthma and lung problems, especially for children and the elderly.
What can be a major threat to health?
What does current follow?
What do plants produce offspring with?
Acidity is measured with a pH meter or with pH paper strips.
Amniotes are the reptiles, birds, and mammals.
What helps a fungi's cellular respiration?
West winds mean a land breeze.
Operating an automobile usually requires what from gasoline?
What is used to preserve food?
Blood typifies the life, for the life is in the blood.
Organisms cluster around formations in the ocean floor powered by the heat of submarine what
Lipids Lipids are also composed of carbon, oxygen and hydrogen.
For example, blood pH is critical for regulating the binding and release of oxygen from hemoglobin.
What does looking at bright objects do to the retina?
Normally, the body cools itself by sweating.
From which part of a dog can bodily water escape?
what generally carries deoxygenated blood?
Rainfall contributes to, and evaporation removes, moisture.
What is used as an important survival trait by some animals?
What can lead to alkalosis?
what can vinegar cause harm to?
what can be painful and dangerous?
When it is day the sun is out.
Mosses Mosses are flowerless plants that grow in clumps.
The fact is that ice seldom freezes or thaws at a uniform rate.
What can help people feel less short of breath?
most what grow roots into the soil to absorb inorganic elements?
Marble is a metamorphic rock.
what can cause bodily tissues to swell?
Touch is the earliest of the five senses to develop.
what gene does two living things crossing cause their offspring to have?
Sponges are also keystone species.
What cause genetic traits to be passed down to that organism 's offspring?
How do electric stoves boil water?
What requires burning fossil fuels?
what do plants need to grow?
Toasting bread also makes it sweeter and crunchier.
What does a plant require in order to grow?
An electrical current is the flow of electric charge.
Some insects communicate with what detected by their antennae?
Natural toxins can be harmful too.
What can be used to see cells?
poisonous substances can cause what to come to living things
Catalysts lower the input required for chemical reactions to what
Sunlight can be conducted to the surface of the ocean to make it what?
Each planet rotates at a different pace.
All mammals have fur or hair.
Biodiversity is equated with the number of different organisms present in a habitat .
What can make passive immunity last?
Computers run on electricity.
Lack of oxygen can intensify orgasims but a side effect can be?
when an electrical circuit is working properly , electrical current runs through that circuit
What type of deposit fans out into the ocean?
asily shed fibers are found only in what?
Evidence of past life can show that what used to live in a place?
Blood Sugar Glucose is sugar.
Actually, touch is the sense of the skin.
what are earthworms important for?
Some birds are flightless birds.
What may cause lions to fight other lions?
loud noises can cause animals to startle
Unequal absorption of radiation on the earth's surface causes what?
Roots, stems and leaves continue to do what throughout their lives?
When plants give off water vapor during photosynthesis 2.
What do plants need to grow?
Bats are natural insect consumers.
An organism requires what for a healthy personality?
Annual desert plants germinate, grow, and flower quickly when there is a rainy year.
What reproduces asexually by budding?
What supplies food consumed by people?
Which of these can be found in organelles?
What senses differences when you hurt your skin?
Erosion also damages the thin soil.
Evolution can be defined as continual progress.
a lawn mower converts _  into motion
What does an aggressive dog want to do when angry?
what have beaks that are generally adapted for the food they eat?
What is an example of an entity that can live on in a completely inactive state?
Temperature falls from lower to higher where?
What have varied life cycles?
Where do endocrine glands secrete?
an image in a mirror is formed by reflecting light
Microbes are tiny living cells.
electrical current running through a wire can cause a what
What converts heat energy into mechanical energy?
In Denver, traffic signal lights are being converted to the new energy-saving bulbs.
What does sunlight do for a vegetable?
Near the sun, of course, the temperature can be very high.
What does water do for a root?
What does the receptors on the epidermis detect and tell your feet or buttocks they are touching?
hollow fur keeps animals what
what is a rainbow formed by?
What uses pheromones for courtship?
Gravity was defined by Newton.
what causes serious illness?
All echinoderms are marine and benthic.
Spermatophyte Plants that reproduce by seeds.
Arterial Blood Pressure Arteries conduct blood away from the heart.
What happens if Mars becomes too hot?
Larger, dilated pupils are seen as more attractive than smaller, contracted pupils.
What results from plucking a string?
Most of the universe is composed of what separated from atoms in stars?
Caffeine can cause 
Microorganisms can cause edibles to spoil and cause what?
What is affected by the average number of individuals per unit of area or volume?
What prevents the transfer of heat from an organism's body?
Fertilization occurs when sperm swim to an egg inside an archegonium.
What do mammals use to conserve heat?
Where do Bromeliads store water?
Bike commuting truly is green but bike commuting is difficult.
Insects are the major pollinators.
All species are threatened due to the destruction of their natural habitat.
Wood burning stoves provided heat for warmth and cooking.
What has a positive impact on an animal's survival?
What are pigs?
What can cause food to taste sweet?
What can cause harm when splashed on humans?
Pathogens do what?
Hair is largely made of keratin, a protein that contains a lot of the amino acid cystine .
What can cause bodies of water to increase the amount of water they contain?
Decomposition and composting takes place.
Coral reefs are made up of the exoskeletons of thousands of what?
To couple in sexual union, to be matched or mated.
Microorganisms in food are also responsible for the spoilage of food.
Symptoms of their depressive illness are worsened by decreased daylight.
Condensation involves the release of latent heat.
Frogs have a _-chambered heart.
foam materials can be used to keep what
Beavers are primarily aquatic animals.
Sperm and eggs are cells known as gametes.
What impact does recycling have on the environment?
What causes animals to move to find shelter elsewhere?
Mildew and mold spores are everywhere.
Heat can change something that has how many states?
Bacteria gets help moving from what? 
Clouds are formed by what going to colder regions?
What has a positive impact on root growth in dirt?
Insect wings are attached to the dorsal side of their thorax.
Tissues are made of cells.
What require activation energy to get started?
what do most copepods feed on?
Carpools and vanpools can save time.
Long distance running, swimming, bicycling, and aerobic activity rely on endurance.
Although different life stages what lviing organism goes through a alternation of generation?
How does soil move in the air?
what has tectonic plates?
What organism can adapt to cold temperatures?
Byproducts of friction Friction is a force acting against motion.
Orangutans can communicate by doing what?
Sediment is dropped at the mouth of a river by water when what happens?
what does an electric stove transform into heat?
Lipids are the fats that circulate in blood.
Sandstones are another type of sedimentary rocks used in buildings.
A response to what occurs when many muscles contract a little at once?
Ian plays role playing games.
What does hydropower help reduce?
Force being exerted on a soccer ball does what?
What do plants require nutrients for?
Areas of moderate and low rainfall are drought prone.
Wild animals deal with fire remarkably well.
Smoking causes irreversible lung damage by breaking the air sacs within the lungs.
what slows the transfer of electricity?
antibodies are produced by activated B cells that do what?
sand dunes are formed by the wind transporting and depositing sand
What do animals require to move?
communities consist of populations of different what?
What are invertebrates such as the common snail?
Nutrient density is the nutrient to calorie ratio of the food supply.
Thrust faults are a result of compressional forces in the Earth's crust.
Permeability is affected by many soil characteristics.
Where do parasites get their nutrients?
Bacteria in the soil convert what type of gas into a form that is used by producers?
Plants lacking roots and stems cause what?
Nematodes reproduce how?
Why do plants need food?
Nuclear power generation plants emit no greenhouse gases.
Aquatic animals are adapted to living within certain salinity ranges.
What causes differing light to reflect off of the moon?
Diurnal cycles Diurnal cycles are the daily cycles of light and darkness.
What has a root that absorbs water?
Urine leaves the body through voluntary elimination for adults?
Dinosaurs are the most popular fossils.
Middle adulthood begins around age 35 to 40 and continues through age 65 to 70.
Sharks breathe using gills.
Grasses are very distinctive plants.
Which type of plants convert from carbon dioxide, water, and solar energy into carbohydrates?
Chemical equations describe chemical reactions.
When the axis is pointed toward the sun, more light falls on that hemisphere.
What passes energy up the food chain to adult vegans?
Skin is the body's largest organ.
If an antigen causes cancer, it is referred to as a pathogen.
Secondary growth forms secondary vascular tissues and bark.
What can reduce resources used?
Where are chloroplasts found?
_ lack respiratory and excretory systems.
Wildlife habitats contain food plots, shrubs and nut seedings for wildlife.
What do stems help plants do?
Endurance exercises Endurance exercises include cycling, running, and swimming.
Air molecules move slowly when they are cool.
Extinct species are species that are gone forever.
What is the consistency of the Himalayan rocks?
What is necessary for the survival of animals?
What requires sunlight in order to take over an area?
what influences the chances of going extinct?
What is just one substance transported by hemoglobin?
Liquid precipitation is measured with a rain gauge.
Echinoderms are resistant to some:
P16 is an example of what type of thing that causes cancer when it stops functiong properly?
What is created when rocks erode?
What has a complete digestive system and a closed circulatory system?
what does insulin take up?
Energy in the form of heat causes evaporation.
Flowers require _.
Plant reproduction depends on what happening?
Angiosperms are the flowering plants.
what does a doorbell convert energy into?
Wetlands are a very important type of what?
If an object is what color, it absorbs all visible energy?
what causes harm to living things?
What pulls objects around the sun?
Abuse means causing intentional pain or harm.
a bulb converts electrical energy into what type of particle?
What is used in order for Maglev trains to function?
Vines are perennial, deciduous climbing plants.
On the Celsius scale, the freezing point of water is 0 degrees and the boiling point is 100 degrees.
Sunburns are painful and can be dangerous.
All chemical reactions require activation energy to get started.
Vaccination is Active Acquired Immunity.
Ferns are vascular plants.
Endospore-forming bacteria produce a unique resting cell called an endospore .
Large pine trees also provide good shade.
What is used to attract birds to flowering plants?
if an organism becomes too hot then that organism may die
What can be caused by an agent used to control pests?
Ants communicate with the colony in the form of what is called pheremon trails.
What removes wastes and excess water from the body?
the surface of a beach is formed by mechanical weathering
What causes food to spoil?
Stems Stems are the support structures of a plant.
DNA consists of what bound together?
What is one thing that rings can tell you?
If the room temperature is below the melting point of the substance then the substance is solid.
Flowers are a plant's reproductive organs.
An example of organisms that breathes with gills as larvae and with lungs as adults are
What has an increased population size over time?
Which of the following converts electrical energy into noise?
what concentration in the air has increased dramatically over the last decade?
All temperatures are in Fahrenheit.
Plants that are heat tolerant and require less water are able what? 
Animals breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide.
Many corals secrete what to form a coral reef?
The Sun The Sun is our nearest star.
What happens when it becomes too cold?
Reflectance is the ratio of light out to light in.
Soil, sand, clay and limestone can form what?
Looking at the sun can have a negative impact on what body part?
what have wings that are part of the exoskeleton?
water vapor condensing in clouds causes rain
High tide is the crest of the wave and low tide the trough.
What can make an organism die?
What evaporates from the skin?
Persistent drought and food shortages can cause animals to leave what?
Proteins, nucleic acids and chlorophyll are found in what?
Model rocketry is an exciting way to study transportation technology.
Which gender carries the eggs?
What kind of process can have a negative impact on an environment?
What can infect rhizobium?
What occurs when muscle fibers get longer?
Goats are four legged animals.
what can flowing water slowly dissolve carbon in?
Keeping food fresh is a major user of what?
Reproduction is the process by which organisms give rise to offspring.
Metabolism is the sum of all the chemical processes in a living organism.
What gland makes a chemical in the body to increase the rate of metabolism?
what is essential for evolution?
If an organism becomes too hot, then what completes their cycle?
Encroaching trees rob the orchids of the sunlight they require.
Some insects can use their antennae to detect sound.
What can cause a chromatic dispersion?
Viral pneumonia is usually milder than bacterial pneumonia.
All organic matter eventually decomposes.
Phases of the Moon are caused by differing amounts of light reflected from the Earth.
Gene expression can be regulated at the level of translation of an mRNA into a protein.
A tape measure is used to what the side of a square?
Friction causes a car to what?
What can damage plumbing?
how is a greenhouse used to protect plants?
Earthquakes tremors both mild and moderate are frequent occurrences in the park and preserve.
What causes weather to change?
Why would a bear move to a different location?
Metals have large specific heats, that is why they conduct heat well.
what makes food from inorganic materials?
a what requires phosphorus and nitrogen to grow
what requires pollination for reproduction?
Prostate cancer is a form of carcinoma.
Refraction is the bending which is caused by changing speed.
If a habitat can longer support a species, that species tends to
Looking at what has a negative impact on eyes?
if an object is what then it will experience acceleration
Relaxation is a prerequisite to that which has a what impact on health?
What causes crystal balls to heat?
What does potassium help an animal do?
Chromosomes are composed of DNA and proteins.
Insects are the most common animal pollinators, and bees are the most common insect pollinators.
moving people across bodies of water can be done by what?
Honey bees generate heat by consuming honey and shivering their muscles.
Light passing through a prism is refracted or divided into the colors of the spectrum.
Merkel's discs are touch receptors.
_ allow water to penetrate the soil.
What mostly influences plant growth, biodiversity, and adaptations of land organism?
if all members of a species cannot produce offspring then that species will likely become extinct
Gravity is created by mass.
Phylum Platyhelminthes are mostly what?
What have afferent information inbound?
Lake levels can change seasonally and annually.
Wetlands are extremely important:
heavy rains cause what events
What are some invertebrates?
Plants require what in order to feed themselves?
What comes from non-renewable resources?
Foods containing what supplement can help animals heal?
Perspiration is produced by sweat glands in the skin and is secreted through pores.
Every cell in the body requires protein for normal function.
Desert animals are adapted to the vegetation and the climate.
Normally the kidneys manufacture urine.
What causes harm to birds?
What can cause a wire to heat up?
Asteroids Asteroids are variously-shaped masses of rock, metal, and ice.
What is lung cancer most often caused by exposure to?
Offspring sometimes inherit this type of gene from parents:
When the rain stops the cactus is fat because the cactus roots drink the water.
For a male, urine markings are used to define the boundaries of their territory.
What are found in proteins, nucleic acids, and chlorophyll?
Heating liquids is also made easier by allowing saturated gas to reduce evaporation.
Plants grow in nutrient rich soil and absorb the nutrients.
Gravity causes tides.
Acid rain effects forest ecosystems.
What breaks down food into components the body can absorb?
What generally increases from the poles to the equator?
Molds are microscopic fungi.
Meiosis Prior to meiosis as in mitosis, chromosome duplication occurs.
What can reduce fuel usage?
Hydrogen bonds Hydrogen bonds are primarily electrostatic in origin.
What can cause objects to have opposite charges?
What part of the car needs a fossil fuel to run?
For example, people are Homo sapiens.
Meters are the standard to express measurement of length.
Heat can destroy tissue.
Every plant and animal needs water to survive.
Photosynthesis can be found
What element can be stored in limestone for millions of years?
bacteria are more active at what
what forms large colonies in shallow tropical water?
Pollution can also hurt animal and plant populations.
And like other downers, it slows bodily functions, including breathing and heart rate.
What can make objects heat up well?
Most coal is fossil peat.
Aquatic biodiversity has declined.
What are nocturnal and travel long distances at night?
Fungi spores can multiply through what?
What are important biomes?
What can yeast and mold decompose?
Daisy flowers grow in variety of species, colors, sizes.
Hair is used to insulate and keep the body warm in a large variety of climates.
When gas is heated, it takes up more:
Global warming is the change of the Earth's temperature.
Stratus clouds are associated with cloudy and what type of weather?
How do sharks move through the water?
Food spoils quickly at high temperature.
What can a mutation in the sex cells of a parent do to the offspring?
Prokaryotic cells divide by binary fission.
All viruses consist of RNA or DNA and a protein coat.
Heavy rains and runoff can cause what?
most modern what are trees with woody trunks?
Hobby greenhouses used to be small glass houses or fiberglass buildings.
What is one thing studied in immunology?
What does the substance that male dogs have in urine to mark their territory do?
What causes cell walls to relax?
Another example is the Swiss army knife that contains other objects.
What is a river also?
a rainbow is formed by refraction of light by separating light into all different colors
Antibodies are produced to fight antigens.
A rubber band snapping acts like what?
What is it called when one solvent combines with another, what forms?
Sweat is produced to cool the skin down.
Hot sun can bleach flowers.
What structure moves the genetic material of a cell during cell division?
Roundworm Roundworms have complete digestive tracks.
Floods can cause animals to do what?
What uses salt and water to adjust their temperature?
What is a beach formed by?
Transport of material in and out of the Golgi complex involves budding and fusion of vesicles.
Acid rain kills trees .
Contact between what over long periods of time causes them to smooth?
Toxicity is an inherent property of the material.
what catch and eat other living things for their food
What collects something that consists of tiny grains that are the male gametes of plants
When a river floods, that river harms what?
An atoll is the third type of reef.
Saving water is important for surviving in what kind of environment?
What has a positive effect on human health?
When stretched too thin what kind of bands will vibrate?
Sugarcane, a grass, provides much of the world's sugar.
What does light cause an object to do?
Some sea fish live in tropical waters, where the water is always warm.
What increases the productivity and stability of ecosystems?
Where does digestion happen?
Each chromosome is a linear DNA molecule.
Sand also moves via storms and wind.
Fig 4-23 sweat contains water, salt, lactic acid, vit.
What uses stems to store water?
Fertilization occurs when the egg and sperm fuse and join.
Gene flow is the movement of alleles in or out of a population.
What do landfills have a negative impact on?
What is formed when sediments push down on green plants?
What do most plants continue to use throughout their lives?
Animals will require moving habitats if what happens to the animal in a location?
if a habitat can no longer support animals then what is required?
An example of chemical energy is food nutrients.
Tidal energy schemes capture water at high tide and release it at low tide.
plant reproduction requires pollination
If a frame is made of copper, what does the frame have the properties of?
What is formed when testosterone is present?
For that, the player needs lumberjacks to cut down the trees.
What is controlled by the carbon circle and is transferred between organisms and atmosphere
what can be done to salt water to cause water to evaporate while salt remains?
Disease has what kind of effect on a living being?
What are organelles involved in mitosis?
Lungs are used for breathing air by animals with what?
how do abalones reproduce?
what helps insulate and protect the body
using firewood for homes allows what to become available to the surrounding plants
Warm temperatures have helped plant growth and sizing.
Temperature falls from the equator to 
What are zooplankton?
Time and again, volcanic eruptions have destroyed cities, regions, even entire countries.
the gravitational pull of the Moon on Earth 's oceans causes water to what?
Limestones are a common type of sedimentary rock.
Heat comes out the top and can be used for cooking or space heating.
Female gametophytes produce eggs inside the part of the flower where what will eventually develop?
A pesticide is used for protecting plants by killing what?
A flashlight battery stores what inside?
a greenhouse helps 
The group of bipedal dinosaurs that included Dromaeosaurs eventually evolved into:
Earthworm bodies are:
How do ants communicate to other ants to encourage them to follow?
Fossil fuels include coal, oil, natural gas, and gasoline.
Cell division is necessary for growth, repair, replacement, and reproduction.
Frogs are amphibians, iguanas and snakes are reptiles.
Marine life is equally diverse and abundant, from tiny plankton to blue whales.
Population size is the predictor of extinction probability.
the simplest organisms known are usually conisdered to be what?
Deltas are usually fan-shaped deposits of sediment that form where currents slow at a river's mouth.
Light enters the eye through the pupil.
When a charge in motion runs through a circuit that signals that:
Incandescent bulbs produce more heat than light.
where do some fungi live?
Homeostasis is the chemical equilibrium of the body.
Another use for electric heat is in regular light bulbs .
What are the basic units of the structure and are biodegradable?
During heavy rains, the systems often overflow into the nearest water body.
Electrical current running through wire can do what or cause a fire?
What kind of plant would shed its leaves each year?
Most of the matter in stars is in a plasma state.
Carbon is an essential element for almost all plant and animal life.
How many appendages do insects have to detect sound?
Bottleneck effect can be a precursor to what?
Asbestos is a known carcinogen.
What is produced by alcoholic fermentation of glucose in corn?
Special types of primary roots are tap roots or turnips.
Hay fever is caused by an allergy to pollens or moulds.
Birds and mammals are endothermic.
Habitat Martens prime habitat is the coniferous forest.
What is responsible for cervical cancer?
Healthy people become ill, and sick people die.
burning wood is used to keep buildings what?
When ferns are dormant it is as if they are hibernating.
a windmill converts wind energy into electricity primarily by using mechanical energy
A generator converts
what kind of heart do mollusks have?
What protects plants from blizzards?
What can mammals generate heat with?
What can cause the pH of the soil to increase?
Metamorphic Rocks Metamorphic Rocks Metamorphic rocks are formed by pressure and heat.
What is the major thing that biological membranes consist of?
What are smaller bodies of water?
Reindeer are well suited for the Arctic cold.
What occurs when individuals move into a population?
Oncogenes promote the division of cells with damaged what? 
that which develops after primary meristems is located where in relation to vascular tissues?
what contracts when fibers get shorter?
Atoms are the smallest units of elements.
Recycling Recycling protects the environment.
Asexual reproduction gives offspring similar to parents.
Light is the part of the spectrum that stimulates the eye's retina, resulting in sight.
All plants have a characteristic life cycle that includes alternation of generations.
What does uneven heating of earth's crust cause?
A duckbill platypus is a mammal that reproduces how?
What does bush basil have?
what sheds their leaves seasonally each year?
Light is electromagnetic energy in the form of waves.
When ecosystems are healthy, humankind is healthy.
Weight is the product of an object's mass and the acceleration due to gravity.
What's one reason it won't rain?
Lateral line systems, usually found in fish, detect vibrations in the water.
From qlibw , to press as grapes , to contract, to squeeze.
Adult sponges produce eggs and sperm.
The cranium provides what for soft tissues and internal organs
what converts chemical energy into electrical energy?
Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas.
Neurotransmitters are chemical messengers in the brain.
what can be caused to leave an environment by natural disasters?
What can extreme heat pressure create? 
Wind, water, and sunshine contribute to the erosion process that can change our landscape.
What harms the respiration system?
Adult urochordates are _-shaped.
What does ocean water become when acted on by sunlight?
Electron microscopes are needed to see viruses.
Exercise builds muscle.
Landslides Seismic vibration is a common triggering mechanism for landslides.
What can cell phones do to a driver?
What can cause new alleles to appear?
what habitats are replaced when building housing developments?
How do starfish communicate with each other?
Avian species are less likely to end up extinct if they what?
Clams, oysters and snails are familiar mollusks.
Slow cooking food in an oven will cause it to be what?
Who pollinates?
what occurs when sperm swims to an egg inside an archegonium>
Then the total current and Joule heating are solved.
Mirrors are plate glass.
An example of  an organism that uses energy and inorganic molecules to make food is a
CFLs waste much less electrical energy generating unnecessary heat.
The human being is self-aware.
Light is the oscillations in the electric field.
What can enhance a plant's growth?
All birds are placed in the Class Aves.
What keeps animals warm?
An object can be seen if it reflects what?
what can regrow segments that break off?
Food, like chicken and potatoes are recommended.
Excretion occurs in the feces.
Black Holes Black holes are the inevitable conclusion of Einstein's General Theory of Relativity.
Climate changes across seasons can be explained by the tilt of the Earth's rotation axis.
Soils are largely composed of silicate minerals.
What does friction do to a toy?
Marble is used for sculptures, and coal is used for fuel and energy like light.
When would animal burrows need replacing?
Cartilage is a tough tissue made up of:
Electricity Cars that operate using electricity are the cleanest cars on the market.
Chromosomes contain characteristics that are within the what
What is an edible part of a plant?
Color can be seen in some bright astronomical objects, such as stars, and bright planetary nebulae.
what do sunflowers need to procreate?
What are a part of coiled structures made of DNA and proteins?
Each archegonium contains a single egg that is embedded in the prothallus.
absorbing sunlight causes objects to
Aggression is behavior that is intended to what?
What contracts as it gets shorter?
Crumple the foil then carefully reopen it.
An insulated cup with a cover is great for keeping beverages warm.
How do you feel heat on your skin?
What may live in large colonies and have complex social behaviors?
Boiling is very rapid evaporization.
Most airplanes use gas turbines.
What is a fiber that is not found in reptiles or birds?
DNA is an abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid.
Many antibiotics affect the ribosome.
Chloroplasts and mitochondria are both organelles.
Different foods contain different nutrients.
Leukaemia and lymphoma are cancers of the blood.
Organisms cluster around hot water inside cracks where?
The processes of weathering, and water or ice wedging may assist in this.
Pathogens are microbes that cause disease.
What does not change mass?
Which animal's habitat protect it from wild fires?
what can have a negative impact on the environment?
What is changed along with seasons changing?
Applying the car brakes generates
Nematodes are microscopic, true roundworms.
Where are gold and silver formed naturally?
What can thorough cooking do to food?
being distracted while driving can cause people to crash their car
What is used for energy by cells?
Winds are caused by pressure differences.
Grasses are an important source of food for people as well as animals.
Sound vibrations can be compared to pond ripples.
what allows for both asexual and sexual reproduction?
What can cause animals to become dangerous?
Introns are removed by RNA splicing.
What are vertebrates with four limbs?
What can cause an uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells?
Carbon in organic compounds are passed through the food web from what?
Genes are molecules that contain the instructions for cells to work correctly.
what has a positive impact on an animal 's ability to be a carrier for life?
what are cells the microscopic building blocks of?
Food-Borne Illnesses are the sickness that results from eating foods that are contaminated with harmful bacteria and other microorganisms.
What causes food to taste sweet?
What does an incubator help an egg to do?
To reduce the rate of lung cancer, governments can do what?
Sulfur occurs native in the vicinity of volcanoes and hot springs.
what do carcinogens cause mutations in?
the surface of a beach is formed by what?
what makes pollen?
What kind of animal can live in large colonies and have complex behaviors?
What is an example of an insulating material that can be worn?
what causes a car to lose energy?
Touch receptors are free nerve endings or nerve endings that are surrounded by a capsule.
All plants require sunlight to make their food.
What is the reason beak variation came about in birds?
The agent responsible for the push or pull is the magnetic force .
what can cause a landslide?
For a fossil to be made, the dead plant or animal has to be buried rapidly by sediment.
Water vapor cooing causes that water to fall and what?
What animal must adapt to salt water?
Pollination Bee pollination is essential for a bountiful cranberry harvest.
Natural openings on the surface that lead to caves are called sinkholes, or swallow holes.
Why do flowers attract birds?
Species are the different kinds of organisms.
Vaccines that offer protection from cervical cancer target 
if a habitat can no longer support animals then they will not be able to what
Burning wood is used to produce what type of energy?
What do the basic bulding blocks of life share?
Density increases with depth due to compaction and progressive cementation.
what is used for moving people?
What happens when sperm swim from men's to women's reproductive organs?
Ozone absorbs ultraviolet radiation.
what can change about leaves during a drought?
What does smell help an animal do?
What do most molds get their organic compounds from?
Ducks are aquatic birds.
What season will be changing when the daylight decreases.
What kind of animal doesn't have a respiratory or excretory system?
what do flowers tend to attract?
Estuaries are critical for the survival of many species.
Mechanical weathering produces
Playing is one way what learn how to behave
What process helps hormones travel throughout the body in the bloodstream?
Orangutans have a vocal repertoire of about 13 sounds.
What causes clear weather?
Fire needs fuel and oxygen.
Antigens can be any molecule that causes antibody production.
Reproduction is generally preceded by
Energy is the body's fuel.
What does exercise cause muscles to do?
what does a gasoline lawn mower convert gasoline into?
Organisms have to be better adapted as population size increases.
Nitrogen depletion is a condition of some:
Biodiversity and ecosystems are complex systems.
what can take in food by eating those that gain in terms of surplus?
An object that can be used for measuring mass of an object is similar to what playground item?
Using cell phones while driving can increase
What are used for breathing air by land animals?
What can be used for detecting texture?
Some animals hibernate, living on stored fat until the warm weather returns.
What does the phylum Platyhelminthes usually have?
When what rotates are cycles of day and night created?
An adult frog has lungs and teeth.
Primary rock types are Sandstone, and Shale.
How is mass indicated?
Igneous rocks form when rocks are heated to the melting point which forms magma.
Light enters the eye and forms images.
What has a primary and a secondary meristem?
What becomes hot when exposed to a source of heat?
What usually occur in genes that control the cell cycle?
Pugs are mammals and mammals shed.
Trophic interactions transfer nutrients from producers to consumers.
what is chocolate made from?
Toast is born of bread.
Fertilization can then occur by in-vitro fertilization.
Viral envelopes are sometimes made of fats and what?
What do manatees convert into mechanical energy?
Parts means something has been divided.
Each ovule usually contains one egg , the female gamete or sex cell.
What can happen when a body of water receives more water then it can hold?
Climates are determined mostly by temperature.
sites where proteins are made consist of RNA and what?
A fire requires a by-product of what?
A spectrum is formed by refraction of light by separating light into all different what?
what causes rocks to crack from ice expanding into openings?
an animal requires nutrients for survival
Adults are sexually mature.
what are genes coded on?
Clouds form by the condensation of water vapor.
Serious illness needing hospitalization is uncommon.
Our bodies and senses adjust to the cycle of day and night so that we may work in the day and sleep at night.
Caverns are characterized by enormous rooms.
What happens when cell walls relax?
what can be used for keeping warm?
Invertebrates are animals without a backbone.
Bone provides protection for soft tissues and internal organs.
Chromosome Chromosome A chromosome is a grouping of coiled strands of DNA , containing many genes.
Thermal conductivity also increases with compaction.
What causes diseases?
a drought can change the color of an environment from green to brown
Global warming is caused largely by fossil fuel use.
What does plant plankton need for food?
If fuel burns, chemical energy is converted into thermal energy.
An endospore is the resting state of some bacteria.
What are most buildings heated with?
The bonds of that which when heavy is Deuterium cause what to expand when it freezes?
What reads genetic code in mRNA and makes a nitrogenous compound?
Car and automobile, for example, are synonyms.
Many consumers feed at more than one what?
Most plants have roots .
Many plants are pollinated by bees.
Rivers erode the rocks they flow over.
What can be used to cook food?
what reduces body heat?
Modern echinoderms include starfish and sea urchins.
Strength of materials is the study of properties of materials.
Batteries are a better source of DC electricity.
what has a gravitation pull from the Moon to cause tides?
Fossils show what over geologic time above the level of the species?
what can flood if it receives more water than it can hold?
What prevents conduction?
Surgery to remove the tumor is an option.
What can change the color of an environment from green to brown?
Something that is a push or a pull of water against the seed what causes a root to emerge.
Environments are places where something lives.
For survival, plants require a compound made of what?
Fishers are one of the few specialized predators on porcupines.
what is formed by deposition?
What can be used to make debris?
What object can be used to create a rainbow?
Human offspring are completely immobile.
Language is a learned human behavior.
what can cause animals to startle?
A person is what without cellular respiration?
Flowing water can slowly dissolve carbon in sedimentary rock.
Nearly all species of roundworms reproduce by laying eggs.
Ants are social insects that live in a colony.
What part of a bird's body is generally adapted to the kind of food that they eat?
Phase changes Change of State.
what code proteins?
Where does DNA reside?
Air is mostly nitrogen and oxygen.
Cnidarians have two basic body forms, medusa and polyp.
Wolves use their teeth, feet, eyes, nose, and ears to hunt.
The cells that produce antibodies are key in what system?
Seasons are divided into fall, winter and spring.
fierce fighting for nest sites may cause animals to fight towards who?
Biodiversity is an incredibly powerful force that keeps species evolving.
Earth stands for soil, dust or ground.
Plate Tectonics Movement of earth's surface reflects large scale convection of upper mantle.
Inside the cell is a structure called the nucleus.
Marble is a form of metamorphic rock.
What can cause sinkholes?
Keeping things what is a way to adequately store them?
force causes the speed of an object to increase
What can prevent food spoilage?
Length is how long something is.
First, a hat serves as insulation against convective heat transfer.
What do neutrinos cause in stars?
What does the gravitational pull of the moon cause?
What do ribosomes contain?
gneous rocks are formed when magma
What will happen if an object is in the sunlight?
which can help warm-blooded animals stay active in cold?
Bamboos are vigorous, rugged plants.
what converts chemical energy into light and heat energy?
What is shared to form a bond?
Sedimentary rocks are made from sediment.
Food poisoning occurs when spoiled food is eaten.
Each switch is moved up for on, and down for off.
Where are you more likely to get a sunburn?
a magnet moving in a coil of copper wire can cause an electric current
vaccination policies have benefits to what?
Where do plains get soil from?
Cottages are heated by gas space heat or gas furnaces.
What does an animal require food for?
How does a human keep warm?
organisms commonly found on rotting logs and compost reproduce by way of what
The nerves transmit information electrically.
Bears are intelligent animals.
Sunlight is turned into energy by plants.
Tail fin is long and swept.
What requires energy for growth?
What regrows broken off segments of itself?
Slow and fast respirations or long periods without a breath are common in the dying child.
Furthermore, sunburn can cause premature aging and skin cancers.
The sun contributes what to ecosystems?
what changing can cause transferring energy in the atmosphere
What causes water vapor to condense?
Leaf size of plants increase as the size or amount of their what increases?
Good examples are Bubble coral, Elegance coral, Frogspawn and other Euphyllia corals.
Which structure can replace a ship for short distances?
what decreases when the season changes from summer to fall?
Water vapor is formed when gas changes into a liquid by reducing what?
Playing is really fun.
What can animals use for protection?
CO 2 is carbon dioxide.
Lipids Lipids are diverse hydrophobic molecules.
Spores are a dormant form of bacteria.
Sedimentary rocks are formed by 
what do arthropods feed on?
What does planting trees have a positive impact on?
What falls from lower to higher altitudes?
Faults are produced by stress in the earth's crust that either compress or extend rocks.
Main androgen is testosterone.
Wood used for pulp and lumber.
Fertilization of gametes products something that becomes what?
what contains a system of blood vessels and tubules
What has pressure receptors?
What lacks chlorophyll, making them unable to make food by photosynthesis as plants can?
What is considered to be part of macroevolution?
Some touch receptors sense differences in temperature or pain.
objects will sink between boundaries with different what due to gravity
Albinism in humans is inherited as a simple recessive trait.
Wind erosion is slowed by wind barriers such as trees and shrubs.
What do flowers respond to?
Yoga does what?
What happens when a liquid is boiled?
An insect has a hard outer covering called an exoskeleton.
Small engines, such as in lawn mowers, pollute at a high rate.
Photosynthesis takes place within organelles known as chloroplasts.
Collector panels absorb sunlight to heat air.
Music is sound, sound is energy.
Cancer cells perform what more often than regular cells?
Gaskets and thermal expansion increase the misalignment problem.
Magnetic intensity is the strength of the magnetic field.
What does a greenhouse protect plants from to help them grow easily?
Plumbing is sometimes damaged during an earthquake.
What kind of plants produce pollen?
what are summer nights?
Nicotine excites the vomiting reflex both in the brain and in the nerves of the stomach.
Plants grow in soil.
Animals do what with sounds, chemicals or visual cues?
What determines the flavor of sweet foods like sugar?
Which is an example of a chemical reaction?
Plastic is an insulator of electricity.
Which object is likely to heat the fastest?
What can cause debris?
Texture: rough, smooth.
An internal combustion engine burns a mixture of fuel and air.
What do most mussles have?
What can dogs cause?
what are caverns formed from?
Cells have multiple repair mechanisms to fix mutations in DNA.
Rivers are usually larger than streams.
Each eyed egg is a fertile egg.
What is required for growth through life?
Dropping an object into the water does what?
A habitat for several rare plant species is formed by the wind transporting and depositing what?
Ice Sculptures melt away.
what grow in length and width results primarily from activity of the lateral locations
To survive the chill, warm-blooded penguins rely on feathers and fat for insulation.
Evaporation can be used for separating a solute from a water in what?
Most metals are conductors of electricity.
Extinction is a natural part or the process of evolution.
What about the temperature may cause water vapor to condense overnight and in the early morning?
DNA contains genetic instructions for proteins, and RNA helps assemble the proteins.
What is energy used for?
what is used to determine the age of fossils?
Cigar smoking is on the rise.
Solar energy is power.
Sweat is made of salt and water.
What are inherited?
What  falls from the equator to the poles?
Chemical messengers carry signals from one nerve branch to another.
Once fertilized, a cone or seed is produced capable of creating a new plant.
Shark exhibit Come face to face with the ultimate aquatic predator.
Insulin made by a person's own pancreas is endogenous insulin.
Basically, heat is energy.
Balance refers to the ability to maintain equilibrium and to remain in a stable, upright position.
What weather damages homes?
Another example of a phase change is the transformation of water from liquid to a gas.
What slows the transfer of electricity? 
Decayed vegetation turns to what over a period of time?
Lions are members of the 'Panthera leo' species.
shellfish have a circulatory system with one or two hearts that pump what
All deserts have very little rain.
Most amphibians breathe with gills as larvae and with lungs as adults.
Many squirrels are protected from what by their burrows
Nuts are also consumed by deer, turkey, foxes, wood ducks and squirrels.
What tool can enable evolution?
What do cars use for energy?
Water in the channel is calm and shallow.
Sea level is projected to rise due the thermal expansion of the oceans and the melting of glaciers.
boiling means change from a liquid into a gas by adding heat energy
Where does energy enter into in the form of sunlight and chemical compounds?
Slate is a metamorphic rock.
What is an important deposit feeder that helps form and enrich soil?
What causes the body to get hot
Cells vary in size as well as shape and are seen with what?
Nuclear reactions in stars causes stars to produce
Biomes that have suffered mainly from pollution have water that contains little or no what?
Requirements See Needs .
What can happen when a body of water receives more water than it can hold?
What can happen to some geographical areas due to uneven heating of Earth's surface by the sun?
Life Living things interact in ecosystems.
Because it is a disease, it can be treated.
What water does a rain storm increase? 
changes in the pH of soil can cause plants to die
Strength correlates with our spinal cord and our nerves, our backbone.
Heat pan, add cooking oil to pan.
What will consumers avoid by not eating?
what do fish feed on?
what is used for seeing?
Force is measured in newtons.
What can be caused by secondhand smoke?
Wires connected to a source of electricity.
Another name for leaf cutter ants is red ants.
Testosterone stimulates the reproductive organs to develop into male organs.
Aggression is active, harmful and offensive, threatens all and benefits none.
Pesticides can cause what to be destroyed?
What causes earth's seasons?
What causes tornadoes? 
Scientific consensus is that pollution causes global warming.
rocks interacting with wind over long periods of time causes weathering
Vegetation is required by many animals for warmth and security.
What does a plant require for survival?
What reproduces sexually?
Sunlight passes through the atmosphere to heat the surface of the planet.
Some soils are more sensitive than others to the acid dropped by air pollution.
What do ALL chemical changes require to occur?
Major river is the Colorado river.
What requires food?
What can move fast through water?
Coal-fired power stations can cause acid rain and contribute to global warming.
What can high temperatures cause?
Where does the chickenpox virus go?
Planets are 'held' in orbit by the Sun's gravity.
Cancer is an emotionally devastating disease.
What does glass bend?
Geothermal energy is used for heating and cooling systems.
building housing developments usually requires replacing where an animal what?
How can children cause a car accident?
What causes ice wedging?
What do clams and oysters eat?
Bacteria and archaebacteria are prokaryotes.
What is transported to other parts of the body?
An apathetic frog is probably a sick frog.
the moon revolving around the Earth causes the phases of the moon
microscope is used to see small things by biologists by making them appear bigger
plucking a string can cause that string to vibrate
what can radioactive dating determine the age of?
What does being buried under mud and soil change peat into?
How many sections does a fish heart have?
What changes gas into a liquid?
Prions are different than bacteria or viruses.
Lakes are large bodies of inland water.
Genetic variation enables a species to adapt and evolve to new circumstances.
An elm tree is a type of tree that grows in America.
Salt is sodium chloride.
All marine turtles are considered to be endangered species.
All oaks are trees.
Secondhand smoke is also known as Environmental Tobacco Smoke.
A lack of moisture in the air causes low amounts of what?
If an organism becomes too hot, what might it experience?
Black spruce is the dominant tree species.
what does a ship move people across?
What is formed by rocks breaking down?
What can measure meters?
Playing is one way what learns how to behave?
Something critical for regulating oxygen from hemoglobin may become unbalanced if breathing is what?
Organisms in which class have beaks that are generally adapted for the food they eat?
What products have a positive impact on the environment?
Basic unit of the plant body is the cell.
What helps stop cells multiplying in cancer?
what do freshwater environments have little of?
Life is no longer merely survival, but growth and thriving.
Having _ has a positive impact on an organism 's health
When the eggs hatch, the hen leaves the nest site.
Earthquakes are long preceded by tectonic shifts.
the suns rays are strongest near the what for the same reason the seasons change
Doing what to salt water causes the water to become fresh water?
Light is the visible form of electromagnetic energy.
Many animals ways of getting rid of extra heat makes bodily what decrease
A refrigerator is used for inhibiting the growth of what on food?
what does fire require oxygen for?
What mainly lives in shallow and coastal waters?
what is essential for evolution to occur?
Literarily, to create something, to make something new.
Complex courtship rituals precede mating.
What can cause flooding?
Kinetic friction is the resistance on a moving object.
How Irradiation Works Food is irradiated using radioactive gamma ray sources, usually radioactive cobalt-60 or .
Growth hormone is produced by the pituitary gland.
What are a kingdom of diploid eukaryotes?
What redirects light in a camera?
An egg requires _ to survive
Excessive perspiration occurs and sweat glands become active.
wiring requires an electrical conductor
How do echinoderms use their feet to locomote themselves?
Organisms live in environments.
what increases genetic variation?
What splashing can cause harm to humans?
What can sonar be used to find?
Antibodies are produced by plasma cells.
What have primary and secondary meristems for growth and length and width into the ground?
the force of what causes germination with the emergence of a root
Examples of such rock include sandstone and shale .
What are hormones?
When one substance dissolves in another, the mixture is:
What can have a negative impact on your eyes?
Grains are seeds that reproduce if planted.
All mollusks have soft bodies.
Rocks are actually solid mineral deposits.
Reduced water supply occurs when what amounts decrease?
Insects are just part of the Arthropod subdivision.
What could cause an animal to startle?
What does sharpening a knife do?
What do yeast use to reproduce?
What can be used for separating a solute from a solvent in a solution?
Respiratory symptoms include difficulty breathing, wheezing, and stridor.
Kinetic energy varies as the square of the speed of a moving body.
where does gravity cause objects that have mass to be pulled down to?
what dies if it becomes too cold?
Animals move around to eat plants or other animals.
What can be caused by direct or passive inhalation?
What are clams?
Protists are the simplest of eukaryotes.
Cubs are born in the winter and nestle in their mother's fur for warmth and to nurse.
What are part of chromosomes?
If Arctic foxes are in too cool weather, they warm up by their thick fur.
Fungi are aerobic organisms.
What are the key cells in an allergy attack?
An invasion of bacteria on the body can cause body tissue to do what?
When it is summer in the Northern Hemisphere, the North Pole is tilted towards the Sun.
Rhizobium bacteria are native soil bacteria and non pathogenic.
Aerating means getting air into the wine.
Another name for salt is sodium.
Ions are neutral atoms.
Aging occurs as _  stops
How do animals get their food?
 rivers cut deeper and wider to form what
Most of the valley floors are old lake beds.
Fertilizers supplement the roots with nutrients drawn from the soil.
Dew point is the temperature at which dew forms.
what is deadly?
what keeps eggs warm?
Where is fire impossible?
When electric current is flowing, power is produced.
Lightning Occurs with ALL thunderstorms.
Free radicals can mutate genes and eventually lead to cancer or cell death.
If what are found in permafrost, that plant used to live in that place?
Rattlesnakes can inject poisonous venom.
Sunlight is the source of light in nature.
Enzyme systems efficiency is pH dependant.
What are plants pollinated by?
Machines can use gasoline to do what?
Plant reproduction may require what?
What property of matter is not changed during a phase change?
skin is used for breathing air by frogs
All foods provide energy.
Pansies are considered a perennial plant, which means they live longer than one growing season.
What causes rocks to be worn into soil
what dissipates energy?
Cervical cancer is caused by a virus, the human papaloma virus.
Dehydration in the hot sun is a constant danger.
What can frogs, toads and salamanders use to smell and taste chemicals?
Plants use the sun's energy to transform carbon dioxide gas and water into a sugar called glucose.
What can help prokaryotes move?
Darwin's theory of evolution depends on more offspring than are needed to maintain the species.
Sounds are caused by vibrations in the air.
if an atom loses an what it forms an ion
What non-deciduos types do not change colors?
Earthworms help form and add what to soil
What is one thing a breathing mask can protect you from?
Small animals are harmed by pesticides.
Building destroyed by fire.
what provides relaxation and has a positive impact on a health?
Gymnosperms are the plants that are known as evergreens.
where are marine biomes found?
What are radiators used for?
what do collector panels use to heat objects?
Copper is a much better conductor.
Invertebrates can be what?
what causes erosion?
what does fission take place?
Gold is an excellent conductor of electricity.
Lymphocytes are the key cells involved in what?
Helps insulin regulate blood sugar.
Fast Facts 1985 Scientists discover a hole in the ozone layer of the atmosphere over Antarctica.
animals that begin their lives in what breathe with gills then move elsewhere breathe with lungs
Flood waters damage 5,000 homes and buildings.
Birds, like all living things, have intrinsic value.
Animals require fur as it is essential for what?
what have woody stems covered with bark?
Electricity flows when a battery is connected to an object like a watch, toy, or flashlight.
If the persist, blow a whistle loudly into the mouthpiece.
By nature, gorillas fight for domination of resources.
Earth is a living planet.
Chemically, cellular respiration is the exact opposite of photosynthesis.
Plants include trees.
Icebergs are nothing more than solid water.
Impulsion is thrust, the release of stored energy into engagement.
The majority of multicellular eukaryotes are:
What has a primary and secondary meristem?
temperature changing can cause phase changes
T-helper cells are lymphocytes.
Where do fossil fuels come from?
Sun light is the provider of energy.
Sperm had to swim from male to female reproductive organs to be what?
What is a requirement whose amount varies between organisms?
what can a ground be used as?
Speed is how fast an object is moving.
what does muscles contracting a little bit all at once do?
prokaryotes what genes?
Aging occurs as cells lose their ability to divide.
Carbon dioxide is the chief culprit in the increased threat of global warming in recent decades.
When rocks break down, what do they make?
communities consist of populations of what kind of things that can split into two?
What carries urine from the bottom of the bladder to a sphincter? 
What causes botulism? 
Some animals sweat, some pant, some lick.
Insects are the most common invertebrates.
what get food by eating other living things
what dies is their oxygen supply is cut off?
Most cells are too small to be seen without a microscope.
Fish are animals that live in water and breathe using gills.
Most ecosystems get energy from sunlight.
What kind of animal breathes by converting oxygen in water into oxygen in blood?
Human papillomavirus vaccine is aimed at the cause of most cases of cervical cancer.
Fungi lack chlorophyll, so they cannot make food by photosynthesis as plants can.
Immunity results from immunization.
Where can free nerve endings be found?
What is made by DNA and helps in assembling?
Ice is the solid form of water.
pollen grains are small male reproductive bodies of plants used to pollinate what?
What does water turn into when heat is added?
Wild fires rage in California.
a what with feathers evolved from theropods?
Green plants use light as their primary energy source.
when the seasons change from the summer to the fall , the amount of daylight will decrease
what unites to form a diploid zygote?
Bees are useful for what for plants?
Chromosomes are the form of the genetic material of a cell during what?
Clouds are made of moisture and the moisture is from the water evaporating.
Cashion soils are on flood plains.
Birds are important components of ecosystems.
what effects everyone differently?
Different organisms have different growth requirements and growth rates.
Platypus females lay their eggs in a burrow.
Bamboos are among the most useful of all plants.
what do coral reefs provide to ocean organisms?
what causes water to evaporate more quickly by adding heat?
What are some invertebrates protected by on their backs?
All species move to find shelter in another what
Bulbs can be classified as what shape
Insects pollinate flowers.
What is used as energy by most organisms?
what can break down rocks?
what remains are changed into natural gas by heat and pressure change?
What does digestion absorb?
How is a stove used for cooking?
Blood returns to the heart by the veins.
Weather is the condition of the atmosphere.
extreme heat and pressure form a type of what?
Flies are insects with two wings.
Most plant fibers are comprised of cellulose.
what do single-celled organisms have?
What kind of eggs do birds have?
what are earthworms good for?
What may become unbalanced if the lungs are working too fast or too slow?
What group makes up the majority of multicellular eukaryotes?
Human papillomavirus, or HPV, is the name of a group of viruses.
Sponges live on the bottom of oceans, rivers, and streams.
What can cause rocks to break down?
Along the coastal zone are situated shallow banks which are very rich in fish.
Tectonic plates can contain both continental and oceanic crust F 25.
What can squirrels do to conserve energy?
When an animal or plant group gets much smaller, that's called a:
Flatworms are bilaterally symmetric.
Tactile sense is the ability to sense what?
Flowing water from a mountain can dissolve carbon in what kind of rock?
what is chlorophyll essential for?
What event has an effect on corrosion?
All daily cycles of the celestial objects are caused by the rotation of the Earth.
Friction creates heat.
what produces coal?
An organism's health with be negatively impacted by:
a cavern is formed by carbonic acid in groundwater seeping through rock and dissolving limestone
Some what which live off a host kill it, but most do not?
Insectivorous birds typically do what?
Wheat is a grass-type plant.
And rays of light shine on the ground.
Then the days become colder and the number of daylight hours decreases.
Carbon dioxide is the primary greenhouse gas.
translating organelles are involved in doing what with proteins
what kind of spores can develop into new haploid individuals without being fertilized?
Meristems are zones of intense activity.
Fans move air, providing a cooling breeze.
what lays their eggs in a burrow?
On Earth, energy from sunlight heats the atmosphere more at the equator than at the poles.
What does something look like if it doesn't reflect light?
What age group can intend to cause harm and pain?
What do female organisms produce?
Cancer cells, however, grow out of control and develop into a tumor.
Once the camera is tuned with the microscope, the focusing depends on the microscope lens.
How can behavior be learned?
Prokaryotes All bacteria are prokaryotes.
Biodiversity, on the whole, increases towards the equator and decreases towards the poles.
Cells are the basic building blocks of life.
What can feed on phytoplankton?
What can infect and live inside the cells of yeast?
Fish are a diverse group of animals that live and breathe in water.
What powers rockets?
What is something that can be used to impede electrical transference?
What being found in a place shows that place used to be covered by water?
After all, many birds eat bugs that devour plants in the garden.
Mammals can also generate little bursts of heat through what?
What are two ways you can save food?
Plants keep the soil on the land.
All aquatic animals require dissolved oxygen to breathe.
Ribosomes are small organelles where proteins are made.
What is the average weather in a place over time?
Gravity is the force that keeps planets in orbit around the sun.
what state is a liquid in when frozen?
Organic molecules that store electrical energy can be found in what? 
What can chemical splashing cause in humans?
faulting of rock in Earth 's crust causes what?
where does light enter the eye?
The Earth being tilted on its axis causes solar energy to drive what?
When light shines through a drop of water or prism, it bends or is refracted inside the droplet.
Seeds are mature Ovules .
What do the pheromones in male dog urine used for?
What enables the body to grow?
what were formed by a river flowing?
What are genes that are located on the same molecules of DNA complexed with proteins called?
Dogs can be aggressive and stubborn and willful.
We walked and sweated and sweated.
After applying the brakes firmly and slowing to the desired speed get off the brakes.
Sweat cools the body by evaporation, which removes heat from the body surface.
What can be passed down through the males?
Natural selection is the main mechanism of evolution.
What is required by a plant for surival?
using an what requires burning flammable liquid
what does low pressure weather cause?
Rodents as seed consumers and seed dispersers.
Temperature changing can cause what to change to ice?
The melting point depends on the nature of the liquid.
What gets most energy from electromagnetic energy?
Alcohol depresses 
Metamorphic Rocks Metamorphic rocks are the most common rocks in which garnets are found.
Mercury cannot sustain life because it is
Mollusks have a simple heart, which pumps the blood throughout the body.
what is used for energy by the cells of most organisms?
Active transport is yet another form of diffusion.
What is used to create an image through reflection?
what gets released when an animal divides into two parts?
What requires nutrients to grow?
what are chromosomes?
Microevolution leading to macroevolution, discussed earlier, is one example.
What do everything with legs or modified legs?
Temperature also changes with the seasons.
Pesticides can raise the risk of death and what?
Bacteria in the food causes the illness.
What is used to cool the body when it is hot?
Cactuses exemplify water conservation.
Cell division involves a form of mitosis.
Erosion is the physical removal of rock particles.
What cause local weather changes?
TRH stimulates the pituitary gland to produce thyroid-stimulating hormone, or TSH.
Sugar causes 
Floods are the most common type of natural disaster.
Black numbers on a white background are easier to see in darkness or bright light.
Water is everywhere H20.
Where does rainwater go?
What happens when energy flows into a light bulb?
Ozone is represented chemically as O3.
An object's weight is the force of gravity on that object.
Magnetism A compass works on the principle of magnetism and points to the North Magnetic Pole.
What do hormones control?
what is the ability to sense and maintain body position good for?
Plants are complex living organisms.
Ferns are one type of seedless plant.
what changes sex cells?
What causes the bending of light rays?
Some infections lead to disease.
It is breathed in by animals and restored to the air by the photosynthesis mechanism of plants.
Battery life is several months for a AA lithium cell.
Moisture builds up in the air and condenses wherever the surfaces are cold.
Any human is a potential host.
a laser is used for producing light
Water ponding in a depression forms a lake.
What are commonly found in soil and water?
pollen consists of tiny grains of what part of plants?
Population size has no bearing on that amount of genetic variation found within a population.
Acid rain is caused by the burning of fuels such as oil and coal.
Fire heat can kill.
What does earth's tilt on its rotating axis cause?
What can acids do the eyes?
If the food distribution is stopped, tens of thousands face starvation.
Roundworms reproduce using meiosis and what?
When the rain stops the stem used for storing water is fat because the what drink the water
thick fur can be used for minimizing what?
Condensation is water vapor changing to liquid water.
What happens to salt in seawater as it freezes at the freezing point?
How would you measure the perimeter of the outside of an object? 
Energy that comes from body heat can help with 
Cows are social animals.
Deltas are formed by deposition of what at the mouth of a river by water fanning out?
Fish include bass and salmon.
what have roots?
Most mammals have a body what for keeping warm?
Ethologists study how animals behave in animals'
what do mammals use fur for?
Photosynthesis converts solar energy into what for themselves?
Trees only grow to be cut down.
What kind of animals conserve energy with their hair or fur?
What does extreme heat and pressure in a swamp over long periods of time create?
readily available liquid manure is a what?
What happens when water's temperature drops to 32 degrees or below?
If the smallest unit of an element is neutral and it loses an electron what charge is formed?
Temperature falls from lower to higher altitudes.
What has a negative impact on the population size of a species?
Body heat is trapped in the haircoat.
All ravens are black .
Some Beetles Co-exist in Other Insect Colonies.
Water vapor cooling releases what?
some light bulbs convert electricity into light and heat energy
In a location, what disappears first when disturbance increases?
Antibiotics can be used to treat what?
Metal can transfer heat to an object to make it what?
Fossil fuels are concentrations of peat, coal, oil, and natural gas.
what conductor may become hot if exposed to heat?
Lets look at velocity or speed.
Bioaerosols are extremely small living organisms or fragments of living things suspended in the air.
What can a mammal produce by shivering?
The age of a fossil can sometimes be determined by what method?
A flower's job is to produce what?
Water is and was the key to life and survival in Palestine.
What ccurs when many muscles contract a little bit all at once?
What trees have woody trunks?
Fruits, flowers and leaves are edible.
After a long time, the moss can form into a peat.
Dehydration is the removal of the water.
Killer whales are social animals.
what can communicate with sounds, chemicals, or visual cues?
What could happen because of movement in the upper mantle?
Doing what has a positive impact on organisms and their habitat?
Refrigeration slows the growth of bacteria, molds, and other micro-organisms.
Plants will die from a lack of water if vapor in clouds doesn't what?
what do some viruses have a coating of?
What do constructions by earthworms help to do?
Viruses cause contamination spreading what?
Gene flow tends to decrease differentiation.
Nuclear reactions in stars cause them to brighten up what?
What does lubrication prevent?
what have a unique water vascular system with tube feet?
condensation in the air and humidity are caused by?
Green plants are producers .
How do Flagellates reproduce?
chemical weathering causes iron in rock to oxidize
What live mainly in shallow coastal waters?
what can cause an important symbol to the Navajo people?
What attracts two things together
Tidal caves are formed by the energy of the rising and falling tides.
Erosion is caused by water, wind and traffic.
What does creating paper do?
Additional electricity is stored in the battery.
Plants lose water continually by transpiration.
Material is classified as a combustible liquid.
Sweats Sweats are products that cause moisture accumulation on the skin.
Fossil fuels are coal, oil and natural gases.
What causes objects to heat when absorbed?
Fog is essentially very low clouds, consisting of water vapor cooling and beginning to condense.
Cars are a significant source of air pollution.
Interior woods are birch, spruce and pine.
a breathing mask keeps what from being inhaled and causing health problems?
the output of a spring can eventually form a what?
What types of mushrooms have humans collected for thousands of years?
Swamp vegetation was compressed to form coal.
People behave as a result of a complex interaction.
Mechanical weathering produces detritus.
Thirst is used to make animals realize they need to what?
What can acetic acid do to the eyes?
Mirrors are used for reflecting what?
Sand dollars and sea biscuits are also echinoderms.
Visible and invisible light is energy in the form of electromagnetic waves.
Chemotherapy and radiotherapy target cells dividing how?
What can harm animals?
Cytology Cell division Cells proliferate by mitotic division.
Acids have low pH's.
Earth is a planet in our solar system.
What increases ultraviolet light?
what do nucleotides bind together to form?
Rainbows are formed via 
What can stay hidden in a hibernating state inside the body?
what is one way that mammals and other animals learn how to behave?
Rivers are dammed to create reservoirs and hydroelectric power.
WIND Wind is the movement of atmospheric air on a planet.
obligate heterotrophs get organic compounds from what organisms
Fire is a chemical reaction.
Nuclear reactions convert mass to energy.
What has a backbone like a human?
Light is emitted by a light bulb.
Proteins are made in organelles within the what?
Cutting down trees has a what on the homes of animals in natural habitats?
What can cause people to become distracted?
All animals are motile, moving about at some point in their life cycle.
Adrenaline travel throughout the body via
what patterns vary with species?
Germs can contaminate surfaces and objects around the water.
Leaves that keep the plant from what are used for storing water by some plants?
What breathes with gills as larvae and with lungs as adults.
Breast Milk contains antibodies.
On the contrary, the NILE is the longest river in Africa.
Electrical energy is used to power a lamp.
What condition can cause heat loss from the body?
What has a positive impact on where organisms live?
Combustion-related, motor vehicles, wood burning, open burning, industrial processes.
Genes are carried on the chromosomes.
What is scarred by a negative impact on the environment?
Then, gravity collapses the star.
Hibernation is a sleep-like state.
Cartilage cells, called chondroblasts, make cartilage.
Shivering causes muscle contractions to warm the body.
Why do cells secrete acids?
how is salt produced?
Water remains in the current of the river.
Salinity is vital for animals that live in the ocean.
Rio is in the southern hemisphere.
What mechanism do plants use to produce offspring?
Power Outages are a total interruption of electrical power.
Genetics is the study of how traits are passed down, or inherited, from one generation to another.
what makes food from inorganic molecules?
what causes illness?
What does a prism split light into
What causes matter to change states?
What allows for an organism to create young by sexual and asexual means?
Steel is a recycled and recyclable product.
What are coral reefs home to?
What requires a type of fluid to survive?
what produces hormones?
What do power outages do to light bulbs?
What uses lungs for breathing air?
Polyps usually reproduce how?
What balances the effect of air pollution in soil?
Any object expands when heated and contracts when cooled.
Food to survive, mates to reproduce, and water to drink.
Using cell phones can cause Homo sapiens to become what?
Shade trees can be deciduous.
Specialization occurs when competing species evolve with conditions where they live
the simplest of green plants have what?
Rocket engines are reaction engines.
What is a flower used for?
What can happen when a rock interacts with wind over a long period of time?
Bacteria are?
ducks can move fast through the water due to their specialized what
Hair is actually composed of a protein called keratin.
And the erosion caused by the unimpeded flow of water is an example of unintentional change.
Ferns are seedless vascular plants.
Cancer is unregulated cell division.
if soil is permeable then water easily flows through that soil
Mutations that lead to cancer usually occur in genes that control the cell cycle.
Colloidal systems are suspensions of solid matter in liquids.
Amphibians have what to help hunt prey
Water in the cracks of rocks freeze and expand.
What is an example of an object designed to be cool?
Rocks and sediments are pushed along the river.
Training animals in zoos is similar to the way animals learn in the wild.
photosynthesis means producers convert from carbon dioxide, water, and solar energy into carbohydrates for themselves
Fire usually causes temporary declines in populations.
Bones provide an outer shell to protect our internal organs.
what is required for reproduction?
Porcupines only inflate and extend their spines as a defense mechanism.
how do insects talk?
hibernation is used for conserving energy by some animals
If an object is made of metal, what does it always share of metal?
When do plants release oxygen?
Which organ helps break down food into nutrients for our bodies?
what are found in place to indicate a place used to be covered by water?
a bulb converts what into radiant energy when turned on
Tides also calculates the moon phases and the tide's coefficients.
Rice Vinegar Vinegar made from fermented rice.
Hormones are important for what?
Macroevolution is simply microevolution extrapolated over longer periods of time.
Intensity is the amount of heat energy released by the fire.
What can infection cause?
Plate techtonics could be defined as the movement of the earth's sections or plates as a result of convectional forces below the surface.
All fish are creatures that swim.
Doing what with sound waves off the bottom of the ocean is used to find the location of objects?
What do simple eukaryotes have?
What converts oxygen in water into oxygen in blood?
Renewable resources include water, timber, wind.
A gasoline lawn mower uses gasoline to get what?
what cannot surive without oxygen
what can cause landslides?
What causes an object to change shape?
What generally occurs after autumn in moose?
Chemical energy stored in coal is released as heat energy when the coal is burned.
a breathing mask is used for keeping harmful particles from entering the respiratory system
What could not produce enough offspring?
Plants require nutrients for growth.
completing a circuit causes _  to flow through that circuit
When a plant grows , the size of _   of that plant may increase
Biodiversity increases the productivity and stability of ecosystems.
passive immunity lasts only as long as what survives in body fluids?
What are viruses not?
Animals that tend to have complex nervous systems are missing what?
What does being buried under soil and mud change vegetation into?
Sometimes, an isolated fossil is held up as evidence of macroevolution.
Sensory Receptors A receptor is any structure specialized to detect a stimulus.
Venus is the hottest planet.
Nitrogen gas is the most abundant gas in the atmosphere.
An earthquake may cause folding of the layers.
What die quickly if a stroke occurs?
Outside the nucleus is cytoplasm.
When the wiring is finished, what runs through it
Social cohesion Social support, informal neighbourhood groups, community help groups.
Chimpanzees live in social groups called communities.
what does wiring require?
Ethanol is a fuel made of corn.
Water vapor causes what to form?
What causes a planet to accelerate?
Chemotherapy works on cells that are dividing.
What is true about the phylum Platyhelminthes?
Sunlight Green plants require sunlight in order to grow.
What is something uneven heating of the Earth's Surface can damage?
Car engines convert highly combustible vapors into what?
Animal behavior is the scientific study of everything animals do.
First, strong winds circling Antarctica isolate the atmosphere near the pole the winter.
Flooding can cause what to leave an environment
A plant requires what to grow?
When an animal moves, chemical energy is converted to do what?
What was formed by exoskeletons?
How do generators make electricity?
Trees have woody stems covered with what?
Plants often collapse and die during hot weather.
what feeds are more than one trophic level?
Like flagella, they are composed of protein.
what is a moderate way to have a positive impact on a human 's health
What does salt do to ice?
Children learn through play and in other ways.
what uses lipids to store energy?
what is it when a cell converts from oxygen and carbohydrates into carbon dioxide, water, and energy?
What kind of digestive tracks do nematoda have?
The sun causes water to change partially to gas by doing what?
Because HIV attacks T cells, it essentially paralyzes the immune system.
What can be found inside a cell?
What is hair not considered?
Yeast, which is a type of fungus, is used by bakers to make traditional bread.
Viruses Viruses are agents that infect cells, yet lack many of the characteristics of life.
What causes ice sculptures to turn to liquid? 
Leeches are external parasites.
_causes harm to living things
Cactus species often grow in hot, dry deserts.
what do some insects use their antennae to detect?
what does botulism affect?
Winter followed by summer are the slower seasons.
A laser is used for producing what?
An ecosystem is an environment and all the members of that environment.
The gene pool expands through fertilization and:
Cell division causes the process by which tissue what?
Antibodies are synthesised by lymphocytes.
Some familiar examples of biomes include tundra, desert, chaparral, and open ocean.
What disease is caused when mitosis is regulated?
Animals are harmed because of cosmetic testing.
Sleep also allows the joints to rest.
What is not made up of cells?
What relaxes, thereby causing aneurysms?
what vapor forms clouds by rising into the atmosphere condensing?
where does soil come from?
Mars has day and night for the same reasons that Earth has day and night.
Bigger mass means smaller star.
what do some animals grow thicker fur for staying warm during?
What does pulping fibres for paper save?
Most common life cycle in the green algae is the haploid type.
if an object in a fluid is more dense then it will sink due to whose law?
All biological membranes contain lipids as the major constituent.
animals that live where in California will be protected from some natural disasters
an animal requires warmth for survival
If it serves the purpose, use it.
What does almost all plant and animal life depend on?
Pheromones are natural aphrodisiacs.
What is hurt when the environment changes from green to brown?
Radioactive isotopes are commonly used for dating .
Which planet has the strongest pull of gravity?
chromosomes contain what
What happens as mitosis slows for good?
What can cause a rainbow?
What does chemical poison create?
Hydropower is a renewable, economical source of electricity.
what in the neck is responsible for an increase in the rate of metabolism in cells
Oxygen from the air is needed by the body in order to live.
Water freezes at 32 degrees.
Trees produce oxygen.
where are genes carried?
High temperatures can cause objects to what?
What requires sleep?
What kind of vapor condenses to form fog in the air?
Skin cancer can kill.
What is formed by mechanical weathering?
Gasoline is a motor fuel only.
Birds eat food that they scavenge.
What must be removed from the stomach before it is absorbed?
Blizzards are heavy snows, very cold temperatures and high winds.
What can too much caffeine in your body cause?
Ethanol is another transportation fuel.
Nephrons are the structural and functional units of the organ that filters what?
What transports oxygen?
Fire needs oxygen to continue burning.
what can cause the ph of soil to decrease?
What stuck to animal fur can spread?
What is an example of a phase change?
Alterations in genetic information may change a chromosome's structure or one
Tiny marine organisms are thus captured by the baleen, and then swallowed by the whale.
Moles construct a series of tunnels in the ground.
The most ancient what are trees with woody trunks?
Food gives energy.
Pressure receptors are found mainly in the skin.
What causes growth?
What is black not an example of?
What slows the transfer of heat?
Peat moss from bogs is also useful in gardens and as an alternative fuel source.
Pulling and pushing is forceful motion.
the ability to maintain equilibrium is the ability to sense and maintain what?
if a species is rare, harm to it's population increases or decreases?
many corals secrete an exoskeleton that builds up to become what?
what are cells programmed to do a set number of times?
What can cause food to spoil?
sunlight and rain can cause light to do what?
What can some mechanoreceptors sense?
what causes an object to lose energy
Heavy metals are _.
Healing requires energy.
Seeds are dispersed by the winds and by animals.
Mantle convection causes what?
What chemical creates a cavern?
Plants are known as producers .
Characteristics that are encoded in DNA are called genetic traits.
Corn sugar is primarily glucose.
Water erosion has similar consequences as wind erosion.
What helps maintain body temperature?
Water and the Nile River are important to Egypt.
An airplane flies through the cloud.
Chromosomes contain genes, which code for
Sea squirts are the best known tunicates.
Hormones are a functional class of chemicals.
Biological evolution refers to changes in successive generations of a species.
Kaufmanniana tulips are small plants.
Soil lost during erosion can also be very damaging to our water supplies and the Bay.
Normally, zinc leaves the body in wastes.
Rarity in plants and animals frequently manifests itself in small or reduced population size.
Herbivores are the second trophic level and graze on plants.
Secondary growth occurs in the lateral meristems.
what does ice change into above it's melting point?
Evolution requires genetic diversity.
Cold and flu symptoms are the result of the body s response to the virus.
When the algae die they decompose.
Energy enters ecosystems in the form of 
And copper is durable material for a frame.
what has hair?
What type of water do sea tigers live in?
Lizards use their tongues as sense organs.
What causes yearly temperature variations?
An insect visitor is required for pollination and they have a mixed mating system.
When mold grows in the house, it can emit particles that travel through the air.
Gymnosperms and flowering plants reproduce by seeds.
erosion causes deposition
What are some crabs adapted to?
Tunicates reproduce sexually.
What does gravity cause to be pulled down on a planet?
How can smog be reduced?
chromosome duplication occurs when cell division does what?
Jaws appear within the vertebrates.
Recycling has a positive impact on what
what state do some viruses live inside the body in?
What are gills used for breathing by sharks?
What do you experience when your side of the earth is away from the sun
Weathering and erosion continue to shape it today.
For cooking, gas or wood stoves can be used.
Meristems confer the capacity for indeterminate growth of the plant.
If climate changes and temperatures rise, there are a number of potential effects.
Cakes and cookies taste sweet because a little extra sugar is added for flavoring.
What is smallpox considered to be?
Silica sand is primarily mined from sandstone deposits.
For the tourists, there are many places to travel.
Secondary meristem is located within and around the vascular tissues.
Seasons are caused by the precession of Earth's axis.
Any living being is an organism.
what does axial tilt cause?
Centrioles are organelles involved in cell division.
Particularly interesting waves are sound waves .
If an animal become extinct, it's gone forever.
What type of terrain has little wildlife? 
what converts chemical energy to mechanical energy when it moves?
BTW, a gamete is like an egg or sperm.
Protein is an essential nutrient for what?
Hair is a natural insulator whether the it is warm or cool.
What does a hemisphere receive less of if it is tilted away from the sun?
Something that helps prevent hypothermia:
what is smoothed by contact over long periods of time?
Elephants are the largest animals on land.
what do somatic cells perform?
what may compete for territory, water, food, or mates?
An aneurysm is a swelling in a blood vessel.
Cells are the basic units of the structure and function of what?
Pressure causes friction, and friction causes heat.
With the rain comes floods, and with the floods come erosion and landslides.
Food and water shortages can only lead to diseases and many sick people and sick animals.
a plant requires _ to grow
What has skeleton made of tough tissue that contains a protein called collagen?
Anticyclones cause what?
Fibers are oriented diagonally across fiber.
Fungi are filamentous, multicellular, haploid organisms.
Boiling water produces steam.
Humans, of course, are an example of a multicellular eukaryote.
Coral polyps are united into colonies.
Doing what to an object causes particles in it to accelerate?
Heat is a measurement of transferable energy.
Axillary bud meristems make branches.
First, a eukaryote is a cell with a nucleus.
Plants are the foundation of the ecosystem's food chain.
What reproduces by laying eggs?
Bacteria causes what to be harmed?
Fruits are an adaptation for seed dispersal.
Landslides can cerate large crevasses and reroute streams and rivers causing flash floods.
DNA, which contains our genetic code, is the basic building block of chromosomes.
A compass works on the principle of the objects ability what each other
Consumers take in food by eating producers or other living things.
Reproduction is by seeds and spreading rhizomes.
Cancer is a malignant tumor.
Introduction A rainbow is often given as an everyday example of a spectrum.
What are the structural and functional units of learning and behavior?
A rose requires what to grow?
Many consumers feed at more than one trophic level.
Dogs, of course, are mammals.
Acting is about behaving.
What group of animals are a tetrapod vertebrate that produce amniotic eggs?
What is formed when water vapor condenses in the air?
what does HIV infect and destroy?
And fish eat algae.
What can cause the speed of an object to decrease?
How does an echidna reproduce?
What does an animal require for survival?
Mutation in a gene pool is the raw material for what
Man's survival depends on water.
How are flashlights powered?
What changing can cause change of state?
Flatworms have brains.
What do echidna lay?
Tree is very large and a heavy producer.
Vascular tissue refers to blood vessels.
Nutrients are absorbed by the intestines and if the walls are coated, fewer nutrients are absorbed.
What occurs in animals as they respond to changes in their habitat?
An allergy can be caused by
what does a lawn mower convert into motion?
Glass prisms are heavy.
Each nephron contains a system of blood vessels and tubules.
Materials that control the flow of electricity are called resistors.
Water vapor in the atmosphere condenses, then falls to the earth's surface as rain and snow.
Some invertebrates may have which feature?
Electricity is a form of energy and is sometimes called electrical energy.
what moves by converting chemical energy into mechanical energy?
Condensation involves molecules joining together with the release of water.
What do microspores develop into?
Fuel is burned inside the engine.
plants live just about everywhere where?
fanning a fire increases the oxygen near the fire
What can help prevent harm to humans?
whose survival does staying warm have a positive impact on?
What phylum do starfish belong to?
Speakers convert electrical energy into sound waves.
Communication requires an idea, a message to share.
Electricity is a powerful energy source.
Insects pollinate plants.
Instead, the body is covered with a protective shell of bony armor.
Mammals find breath through the action of what thing beneath their lungs?
thick fur can be used for keeping warm
Fertilization occurs when a sperm and an egg fuse to form a diploid zygote.
areas with bays and tributaries are bigger and deeper than what?
What lack respiratory and excretory systems?
Water combines hydrogen and oxygen.
Aerobic respiration uses oxygen and releases carbon in the form of carbon dioxide.
Heating an egg results in chemical _.
What do organisms cluster around in the ocean floor?
What does kicking an object do?
Feathers are highly probable in the advanced bird-like theropods.
What converts more wind into electricity?
what does an electric circuit need to work properly
Oceans are large bodies of salt water which separates deposits of land.
what requires electrical energy to function?
What do DNA and RNA work together to create?
what do animals use to store food?
All trees are plants, including redwoods.
When completing the circuit, just touch the wire to the battery.
Which product is widely used today to make fuel for cars?
What happens to vomitus so that toxic materials are removed from the stomach before they are absorbed?
Life is a living organism.
Glass causes a sense of what?
When an animal moves, it burns energy.
A refrigerator that keeps food cold.
How do sea squirts reproduce?
Phases of the Moon are caused by a shadow from the Earth.
By definition, deserts are dry areas.
what is reflected in a mirror to form an image?
The microscopic building blocks of life are cells
What makes plants leaves get bigger?
what does meiosis produce?
what changes to the particles of an object when hit?
what system does HIV attack?
Some plants, like cactus, have a water storage system.
Arteries carry oxygen to tissues and organs.
Deficiencies in the Endocrine System are another source of impotence.
Basal bodies function as organelles involved in what?
All animals are heterotrophs.
What accelerates an object?
How are genetic traits passed down to offspring?
What can extreme winds cause?
Most sands are weathered fragments of quartz.
How can animals with six legs detect sound?
_ running through a wire causes that wire to heat up
Most garbage is buried in landfills.
What are adapted to very dry environments?
What causes nutrients to be available?
Plate tectonics states that the Earth's plates are constantly moving.
Many of the processes of homeostasis are mediated by hormones.
Snakes are cold-blooded reptiles.
What part of a tree would be woody and covered in bark?
An object in the what will absorb energy and then re-radiate it as heat?
Severe weather patterns and high winds can also cause localized damage.
what are assembled inside of the nucleus
Apoptosis means cell death.
Fatty acids that circulate in the blood may contain other what?
What does Earth 's tilt on its rotating axis cause?
Honey Bee Honey bees are insects that live in a hive and make honey.
Refraction is the bending of a ray of light.
What will make human temperatures go in a different direction from what sweating would do?
what have good eyesight and a keen sense of smell?
Transport like what is the final stage of aerobic respiration?
Scrubbers can be used for what?
what uses fat to keep warm?
Vertebrate chordates have a backbone.
Eagles are large birds.
All animals are heterotrophic and obtain their food from plants.
What has a water vascular system with tube feet?
what may live in large colonies?
Active immunity results when an immune response to a pathogen produces the basis of what?
Carbon may be stored in sedimentary rock for millions of years.
Problems caused by mold spore in the body are treated by what kind of doctor?
The mass of an object causes _.
Irradiation causes chemical changes.
Birds eat the fish, algae and human food.
What cannot sustain life?
Proteins are translated using the standard genetic code.
Kinetic energy is the energy of movement.
What does shivering generate?
What does the skin protect against?
Burning carbon concentrations have what?
What do muscle fibers need to do to enable movement?
Euglenoids are eukaryotes, and reproduce by fission.
Genes that are located on the same chromosome are called linked genes.
Cooked foods are easier to digest.
Eukaryotes Eukaryotic cells are complex with numerous organelles.
Braking would cause what to an object's temperature?
Cytokinesis is the final stage of cell division in eukaryotes as well as prokaryotes.
What affects cell aging?
Female monotremes lack a uterus and vagina.
Shock is a disruption of the circulatory system.
what requires a warm body temperature for survival?
What is a flower's purpose?
Heavy metals are, in general, foreign to the body.
Cells that secrete hormones travel throughout the body in what?
Hammers start breaking rock.
All adult sponges are sessile.
Endocrine organs make hormones .
And as they grow, the size of their food is increased.
Days and hours change seasonally.
What can most protists do?
Actually the toad is a type of frog.
Many snakes seek shelter from the winter weather by holding up in dens.
what flows in a circuit?
Influenza viruses change constantly.
Research has shown that soil pH less than 6.0 can decrease crop yields.
Much like a fish, the Mussel has little gills.
Ozone depletion in the stratosphere is a global problem .
Air is used as a source of oxygen.
Excessive sweating and dehydration are common.
Something eaten by humans have varied what?
What disrupts organisms and the atmosphere?
What is needed for changes to occur?
heavy rains cause flooding
Behaviors can be learned through what?
Over what periods has macroevolution happened?
Sometimes the water of the Ganges mixes with the current of the river Saraswati.
What is sugar stored as by the body?
Using renewable resources reduces what?
Electricity can run appliances and illuminate light bulbs.
what relies on a relatively narrow range of acidity?
what side of insects are wings located?
An increase in temperature is the result of the flow of heat into the system.
Which part of fungi have humans collected and grown for food for thousands of years?
Wiring requires a material such as copper or what?
What is used for refracting energy?
What do stem cells form?
What can liquid waste be?
a sandbar is formed by water moving sediment downstream
What is compressed into coal over long periods of time?
Building housing developments may cause 
Cancer genes are an example of the type of thing that can be passed on through:
When inhaled, the particles lodge in the respiratory system, causing or aggravating health problems.
Absorption comes from active transport.
Kinetic energy is energy associated with motion.
Glass or fiberglass buildings are used to protect plants by keeping them what?
Development of multicellular organisms is usually initiated by fertilization of an egg by a sperm.
White eye color is a recessive trait.
Most plants are producers.
what's bodily water decreases through sweat?
Vapor condenses, falls and seeps into the ground.
Upon reproduction, offspring are subject to mutation.
_ are an essential nutrient for animals.
Reusing plastic bags has a positive impact on what?
what did birds evolve from?
What does healing require?
Recycling has what kind of impact on the earth?
when an object is made from a material, what does it take on from that material?
Lavender can induce
What does an animal like a mollusk lack that many other animals have?
What can become heat energy?
How do spermatophytes replicate?
Indirect light is refracted or reflected light.
Conserving energy has a positive effect on what?
What does Ginkgo biloba do seasonally?
What organ in the body can protect you from toxins?
what appear within animals that have a backbone?
Cooking either diminishes or eliminates the vitamins and enzymes in fresh foods as does irradiation.
What has a relatively complex circulatory system with a three-chambered heart?
An abscess or swelling is caused by an infection in the tooth or gum.
Drought or rain also affect the harvest and the planning.
Daylight is shorter, and the light from the Sun is cooler.
What is the ideal liquid to hydrate an animal?
a refrigerator is used for keeping food fresh for a long period of time
The sweat evaporates from your skin, cooling it.
And leukemia and lymphoma are forms of cancer.
Potassium is an essential nutrient for plants and animals.
When rocks are weathered and eroded they break down into smaller pieces of rocks and minerals.
Erosion causes the Nile to become:
Sterilization kills all viable microorganisms.
What is absorbed from the blood when someone uses the hormone or a medicine containing insulin?
Hydrogen and oxygen create water.
Hurricanes contain a tremendous amount of energy.
Phosphatases are enzymes that remove phosphates from other enzymes.
Bacteria that require oxygen are aerobic.
Predators require something else to make food, which means they are not:
Humans are a domesticated species.
Wildfires can also threaten people's homes and destroy wildlife habitat.
what can communicate with sounds, chemicals or visual cues?
an electrical insulator slows the transfer of electricity
What does food contain?
What provides animals with protection against the weather?
Something specialized to detect a stimulus is found mainly where?
What reads the genetic code in mRNA and makes a chain of amino acids?
what makes it possible for an animal to move?
What is plasma?
can the movement of tectonic plates be predicted? 
Folds are examples of ductile rock deformation.
what do biologists use a microscope to see by making them appear bigger?
the vomiting reflex is used to remove toxic material from the stomach before it is absorbed
Cell division can be
Like fog, it forms in clear and calm weather conditions.
Rotation simply means how long it takes a planet to spin on its axis.
Erosion Soil erosion is the detachment and movement of soil materials by wind or water.
What uses playing as just one of many ways to learn how to behave?
Some deuterostomes lack a centralized what?
What have special structures for penetrating trees
Hostility can be one outcome of:
bacteria cause food to spoil
What can require replacing the forest home of martens?
what changes to cause evolution to occur?
Unfortunately, some earthquakes do enormous damage to homes and can even cause injury or death.
Cultivation is easier if soil is loose.
What can change shape?
Toxic wastes can cause illness or death.
vinegar can cause harm to the eyes
Thunder can do what to animals?
DNA is the genetic material of cells.
What is one thing viruses do not cause?
What might plants grow towards?
Flowers are plant organs of reproduction.
Evaporation of sweat uses energy, where does the energy come from?
What does vesicle transport require?
what produces a diploid zygote when fertilized?
When inside a bacterium, the spore is called an endospore .
What may streams start as?
What often causes growth?
What can happen if a metal is heated?
What requires warmth to survive?
Aluminum's classification is other metals.
Hair and feathers are both made of keratin.
What consists of organic molecules that store energy in their chemical bonds?
what are passed up a food chain or web from lower to higher trophic levels?
What happens when the muscle is stretched while fibers are shorter?
Sunlight is a form of electromagnetic energy.
What does a warm body temperature do?
How do plants create young?
Trees have woody stems covered with bark.
Being exposed to wind can cause 
Prokaryotes have no membrane-bound organelles, thus bacteria are prokaryotic organisms.
Information on DNA is organized into genes.
What learns to behave through playing?
what is blamed for temperature increases?
heat and pressure change the remains of prehistoric living things into natural gas
mature sponges produce what?
It is essential in the absorption of light energy for photosynthesis.
Under what conditions does plasma form?
An infection is an invasion of the body by bacteria.
What vary in size as well as shape and cannot be seen without a microscope?
Gravity accelerates mass.
Common micro-organisms can cause people to become what?
Some viruses have an envelope of phospholipids and proteins.
what can wiring be made of?
a living thing with four divisions can be what with woody trunks?
Pheromones are chemicals produced by insects to communicate.
Attached ear lobes is a recessive trait.
Lack of water in the air causes
What are needed after antibodies won't survive in body fluids?
What can convert chemical energy into light and heat energy?
what can carbon be stored in for millions of years?
Outside, the sun is bright.
Urine tests detect drugs used up to 36 hours before a given urine collection.
What produces amniotic eggs?
That the cellular level, the final stage of breathing oxygen is
Some flowers can become what?
what can be depleted of nutrients?
Scraping oneself on a contaminated object may lead to what?
What do parasites do with waste?
when a plant grows , the size of the leaves of that plant may increase
smoking causes direct damage to the lungs
Atmosphere is the blanket of air around the earth.
Each archegonium is flask shaped.
Condensing is a gas turning into a liquid.
Most fungi get organic compounds from dead organisms.
Electrical circuits require a complete loop through which the electrical current can pass.
What will a porcupine do when it feels a fisher is displaying threatening behavior?
converting gasoline into motion cause what
What does the skin protect the body from?
DNA carries information.
Every animal has special characteristics and physical features that help it survive.
What usually have more water than streams?
What do gymnosperms produce?
Incandescence is light from heat energy.
Granite is a common rock in continents.
What can be formed by carbonic acid in groundwater seeping through rock and dissolving limestone?
FAS children are the offspring of chronic alcoholic women.
People eat food.
Sexual reproduction requires formation of gametes, followed by fertilization.
Damage to the structural units of the kidneys can be caused by  ..
Limestone caves are formed when acids attack and dissolve the calcite in limestone.
Bacteria grow best at room temperature.
What do animals need to keep warm?
What changes ice to water by adding heat energy?
Friction generates heat.
An ecosystem includes the organisms and their habitat.
Hurricanes are killer storms.
Every frog starts as a tadpole.
What helps pollinates plants?
Vinegar is a weak acid (3.5 pH).
How does a guitar create sound?
What does slowing the growth of bacteria do for a food?
A tape measure is used to see how what something is?
What tends to occur when individuals move into or out of a population?
What against the seed coat causes a root to emerge from a seed?
Which objects are heated arter natural absorption of solar light?
Dolphins have an astonishing sonar capability.
Food and minerals are both nutrients.
All bottles are recyclable.
All fish are heterotrophic.
Gas can be converted into:
how do humans communicate?
What soil helps a plant grow? 
What does the Earth's lean on its rotating axis cause?
a plant requires sunlight for photosynthesis
All insects are arthropods.
Mushrooms are organisms known as fungi.
What do earthworms mix?
Power is produced when what happens?
what can an ion have if it loses an electron?
Living things can be protected by
Genes specify individual traits.
Plate tectonics is the drifting of the continents.
What are major producers in the desert?
being burried under soil and mud changes peat into coal through extreme heat and pressure in a swamp over a long period of time
Thyroid hormone stimulates the metabolic activity for growth and development.
Viruses are germs that cause people to get sick.
Phospholipases are the enzymes that degrade phospholipids .
What is attached to insects' thorax?
Cancer and tumors are a result of specific types of:
When the hand touches the cup, touching.
Polluted rain is called acid rain .
Most people know that the Venus Flytrap is a carnivorous plant.
What living thing has collected and grown fungus as a source of food for thousands of years?
What is smell used by animals to do?
If food smells or looks spoiled, always throw it out.
What gland helps regulate the metabolic rate in the body?
Behind each storm there's a rainbow.
in transpiration, where does water vapor move from the plants to?
where does being buried under soil and mud change peat into coal through extreme heat and pressure over a long period of time?
What has a positive impact on health?
Cougars receive sound through their ears.
Another gene, named BRCA2, has also been identified.
Several tectonic plates make up the earth's crust that are in a constant state of process.
The suitability for septic drainfields is poor because of slow permeability.
What is the process of removing feces and excess water from the human body called?
the digestive system breaks food into nutrients for the body
When they hibernate, bears enter a deep sleep.
Massive boulders and tiny rocks influence the sound and path of water.
When water vapor condenses, energy is released.
In what timeframe does menopause typically occur?
RNA hybrids are then detected by a luminometer.
Prokaryotes multiply by simple cell division, forming clones or exact copies of themselves.
Preventing the transfer of energy from an organism's body does what?
What does heat energy do?
How are mountains made?
All chordates have jaws.
Many organism behaviors have evolved through natural selection.
Earth's tilt on it's rotating axis causes rapid what?
If there is a strong light, the pupil gets smaller.
Heat flows from warm to cold.
The protective covering on mammals, that helps them conserve body heat, is usually:
What are scorpions?
What social group is on Richard's shield?
Antibiotics kill the good bacteria along with the bad bacteria.
what requires penetration?
Drink lots of water for hydration.
Bacterial infection can inhibit ejaculation of what?
Cabins have wood burning stoves and propane furnaces.
what's survival is influenced by population size?
What are lion communities called?
a ship is used for moving people across bodies of water
Water vapor that condenses in the air near the ground is fog.
What is used to cool the body?
The increase in permeability is caused by the formation and expansion of ice in the soil.
friction causes the temperature of an object to increase
Condensation is water from the air.
Drought conditions are fire conditions.
chromosomes are coiled structures made of proteins and what?
what causes the ground to shake?
a doorbell converts electrical energy into sound
What does mechanical weathering do to a rock?
Frogs have a three-chambered heart, consisting of two atria and a single ventricle.
What heats water for boiling?
what can be done to stones?
Alleles are alternative forms of a gene.
Lakes are generally bigger and deeper than ponds.
Reptiles are a class of tetrapod vertebrates that what
Melting is a phase change.
Harming an animal species has a negative impact on what?
Weight and mass mean the same thing.
Cellular respiration is a requirement for life.
Flowers to be planted in between fruit plantings.
what can happen when the cell cycle is no longer regulated?
Specialization occurs when competing species evolve techniques to what?
What keeps smoke out of the respiratory system?
Light waves are electromagnetic waves.
Hexazinone inhibits photosynthesis.
What does using renewable resources to generate power reduce?
Slime molds can produce
DNA is a carrier of information of inheritance.
Pollutants can harm 
what requires nutrients for survival?
Aging is associated with degrading:
There is no spillway at Lake Tahoe Dam.
When does steel expand?
Meristems are found in both roots and shoots.
wiring can be done with what
Palustrine wetlands include marshes, bogs, and swamps.
HIV infection is a chronic lifelong infection.
Clouds produce rain.
Pan sauces are made from the pan juices of cooked meats or fish.
Most plants without attractive flowers use what to disperse pollen?
What is used as an energy source by television?
Boats can transport people or goods across the water.
Video phone is also possible using iphone.
Similarly, threatening or intimidating behaviors are also forbidden.
Viruses Viruses are difficult to classify.
Aquarium habitat is very different from ocean habitat.
What do animals use as a food course?
Evolution Evolution is the changing pattern of life forms.
heating an egg causes a chemical reaction in the egg
An electric fan makes 180 revolutions per minute.
Photosynthesis occurs using the suns energy to create the plants own energy.
Some aviary species fly and others swim but, all endothermic tetrapod vertebrates share what trait?
Most rainforests lie near the equator.
Plants have specialized reproductive organs.
What has a special excretory structure?
Oncogenic viruses are viruses that are linked to cancer.
DNA is a code, or recipe, for the manufacture of proteins.
What kind of matter can produce sound?
Smoking tobacco decreases
On the other hand, the environment causes all living things to adapt.
What are formed by precipitation?
Extinct organisms represented only by fossils.
What can happens when athletes are hot?
What can burn the skin?
What kind of animal sometimes gets hiccups?
pollen consists of tiny grains that are held within what
What attracts insects?
Trees here are largely deciduous, shedding their leaves in the dry season.
Macroevolution is evolution over geologic time above the level of the species.
What over geologic time above the level of the species is more than repeated microevolution rounds ?
What are highly probable in the evolution of a group of bipedal dinosaurs?
Some mollusks have a shell.
Landslides caused by earthquakes .
What do plants conserve?
What causes weather changes?
What can living underground keep animals from being?
Oxygen-rich blood is bright red.
What can kill animals? 
Chemical weathering is very slow in granite.
Global warming blamed on CO2.
What organelles that are found in the cells of mosses.
Sustainable, organic agriculture is predicated on such balanced ecosystems.
What do the simplest of green plants have?
what are many organisms found in shallow coastal waters used for?
Food is used for energy by what part of most organisms?
What can HIV infect and destroy part of?
Volume is the amount of space an object or substance takes up.
Storms can cause what?
what do frogs use skin to breathe in?
what type of function occurs when muscle contractions propel sperm from the epididymes?
What has a characteristic life cycle that includes alternation of generations?
How are organisms able to grow and repair their cells?
what can you fold to cause it to change shape?
Carbon 14 Dating Perhaps the best known radioactive dating is based on .
If cold air is advancing on warm air, the front is called a cold front.
Fall begins as deciduous trees lose their leaves when?
Where can not survive in a desert?
Bacteria are single-celled organisms.
As a plant grows, what increases?
Supersonic transport is a viable means of transportation.
CAT Cats are animals and are great pets.
Conventional myosin is required for cytokinesis .
what is temperature a change of?
Light is focussed on the retina.
Reflective glass is used for reflecting what?
during what are chromosomes the form of genetic material?
What is the final stage of cell division in eukaryotes as well as prokaryotes?
water can have similar consequences on soil like?
If two things have the same charge, they repel, or push away from each other.
RNA polymerase joins the RNA nucleotides together.
Many squirrels live in burrows under the ground instead of in the trees.
Acorns are the seeds of oak trees.
Resistance exercises are weight-lifting exercises.
Members of the Myrmecocystus genus communicate via pheromones, which are a type of:
Males and females mix only to mate.
What doesn't a phase change alter?
Feathers help what kind of animals fly and provide insulation?
what might infection or injury of the lungs cause?
What protects a mammal's skin?
What can be used to identify a liquid's boiling point?
Plasma Is the liquid portion of the blood.
Light is a form of radiant energy.
What happens if two balanced forces act on an badge in opposite directions?
How are nitrogenous wastes excreted?
To promote plant growth, vineyards are often
DNA can be fixed with repair mechanisms of
Chinook winds are warm, dry winds.
What happens when light and images fall on the retina?
Some viruses can cause cancer.
Nitrogenous wastes leave the body in the urine.
What is generally similar across species?
Blood Glucose Blood Glucose Glucose is the principal source of energy for mammalian cells.
Oxygen Oxygen is in the air we breathe.
what flows through a circuit when it is completed?
 water stress can be from daily or seasonal what
What can develop into new haploid individuals without being fertilized?
what is caused to form from condensing?
What can gas furnaces cause?
Insulin helps cells take up glucose from the blood.
Echinoderms and molluscs use adhesives to grip the substrate during locomotion.
Hummingbirds are the most common bird pollinators.
Another interesting flower is the Orchid flower.
There are what who study how animals behave in their natural environment.
What live just about everywhere?
what does a windmill primarily use to convert wind energy into electricty?
The measurement of what falls from lower to higher altitudes?
Lions live in social groups called prides.
What animal uses gills to breathe?
What animals belong to the largest phylum of invertibrates?
Examples are the E-Coli bacteria and Hanta virus.
Ribosomes are sites where what?
Gravity attracts the planets to the sun.
On inspection the temperature of the fridge was found to be adequate for food storage.
What is used as an energy source by pagers?
Mercury is close to the Sun, and is extremely hot.
Thresher sharks are long-tailed subtropical fish that swim along the surface.
What would a turning blade cause?
When flooding occurs, water seeks the lowest level.
Wings are part of the exoskeleton and attached to the thorax.
Oxides Oxides Oxides are elements combined with oxygen.
What is TSH regulated by?
Salamanders have a long tail that is used for swimming.
Rivers and streams are bodies of fresh, flowing water.
With a measuring cup, pour different amounts of water into each cup.
What can determine the amount of water?
Beaches Anymore Sand is one of the most common materials on the earth's surface.
Most salamanders find mates by what?
Reptiles are a class of tetrapod vertebrates that produce eggs with what?
Sedimentary rocks can be weathered and eroded to form a new generation of sedimentary rocks.
a protein that prompts an immune response are found where?
Infections usually require medical treatment.
Some receptors are free nerve endings.
Strength is increased by resistance activities.
Cells form tissues, which form?
What can disturb animals causing them to move to a different location?
The second leading cause of death is a disease in which
What increases a body's strength?
Sound causes it to move like the head of a drum.
What is inevitable?
Candida and Aspergillus are types of fungi.
What does burning wood lead to?
How do proteins leave the ER?
When cells start to divide uncontrollablly, they may form a what?
Ethanol is produced by alcoholic fermentation of what?
Oxygen deprivation in immune cells causes immune weaknesses.
A solution is formed when limestone is dissolved in what?
Earthworms Earthworms are in the phylum Annelids.
Marine fossils found in the interior of the continent.
Food turns into fat.
soil is formed by rocks eroding
Deforestation takes place when trees are cut down in the rainforest.
Folding and metamorphic rock Folding is caused by slow compression and the rock responds by bending.
what are proteins made?
Birds such as sparrows and warblers are nocturnal migrants and travel at night.
Heavy wet soils discourage healthy root growth and encourage root roots.
What influences the chances of a species surviving?
Which has specialized reproductive organs?
what are used to find the location of an object?
sexual reproduction increases genetic diversity
POLLINATION Pollination is essential for fruit production.
what causes something to move?
DNA strands are long polynucleotide chains.
Oncogenes are genes that promote division.
Battery can be tested with flashlight.
What may cause chemicals to leach in soil?
Mosses lack the roots and stems that other plants have.
Many plants rely on bats to spread their seeds and to pollinate flowers.
What causes earth quakes?
Damming a river can cause what in a depression?
Fatty Acids Fatty acids are the building blocks of fats.
What can happen to an oak's leaves when the oak grows?
How do birds court and defend territories? 
what contributes to soils?
A wound caused by a contaminated object may become:
What causes iron to rust?
Most cacti thrive in an area with very dry periods and light rainfall.
Human mating may lead to 
What form of transportation does not cause diseases or harm crops?  
mushrooms are nonphotosynthetic and cannot what?
what contributes to meat toughness?
Changes in the pH of soil can cause plants to decay and leave what for future plants?
Water vapor goes from where to the atmosphere in transpiration?
All smoke is harmful to the lungs.
what kind of beads are formed from vapor condensing?
Fetus is Latin for offspring or young one.
What can ancienty buried plants produce?
The growth of plant roots is positively impacted by what kind of soil?
What are one thing the combination of proteins and DNA make up?
nuisance fungus are what on rotting logs and compost?
cancer is characterized by cells doing what out of control?
What do plants require for reproduction?
What are converted into glucose?
what contains chloroplasts?
What has a positive impact on birds
what's surface is unequally heated by the sun to cause global wind patterns?
what sometimes has special excretory structures?
Which situation can cause a thunderstorm?
Secondary vascular tissues are employed by bamboo and what other kind of tree?
Meiosis is a type of what that can produce sperm?
Shivering costs the bird, however, by depleting energy stores.
an incandescent light bulb converts electricity into light by sending electricity through what?
Without light there is no sense of vision.
Mutation occurs in the cell's DNA, or genetic material.
What is a flower's primary purpose?
Genomic evolution drives the evolution of the translational system.
Many consumers feed at more than one what along a food chain
the mass of an object causes the gravitational force exerted by that object
If Someone Is Hyperventilating Hyperventilation is caused by breathing too deeply, too fast.
Transpiration is when what moves from plants into the blanket of air around the earth.
When the diaphragm moves down, air is pulled into the lungs.
what is used to produce electricity by burning in power stations?
fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals have what?
Each step along a food chain is known as a trophic level.
How can you prevent harm caused by flea bites?
Higher tobacco taxes reduce smoking and smoking related sickness.
What do many insects and animals feed at?
What is fog formed from?
what can change the state of matter?
Nerve endings in the dermis are the source of the body's sense of touch.
If koalas are impacted by fire what happens?
what can become distracted?
Viruses are usually considered to be nonliving.
Coral reefs are found in the warm, clear, shallow waters of tropical oceans worldwide.
Insect bites cause what to organisms?
amphibians are the first true what with four limbs?
Soil nutrition can be what?
conserving water can be used for survival in a dry environment
Fish have a circulatory system with a two-chambered heart.
The vanes rotating in an electric fan cause what to move?
What has a negative impact on the lungs?
Fish Fish are the ultimate aquatic organism.
what produces asexually by budding?
Marmots live in underground burrows.
Sunlight and water containing small particulates and acid can cause what?
What changes a solid into a liquid using heat energy?
What can a magnet moving in a coil of copper wire cause?
Hitting an object can cause that object to what?
Infection can cause a range of illnesses.
Contact between rocks over long periods of time causes rocks to be what?
Electricity A kWh is a unit of electricity.
Which of the following does not have an anterior and posterior end?
What can cause serious eye injuries?
Fungi are the only organisms that can decompose wood.
What absorbs energy?
What attract pollinators like animals that eat apples and disperse the undigested seeds?
If fossils of a fish are found in a place then that place used to be covered by what in the past.
Crude petroleum is imported for refining.
A greenhouse is made entirely of glass.
Over stimulation can cause sleep problems.
Plants to avoid are fast-growing vines that can take over an area in no time.
By changing a gas into a liquid, how is condensing achieved?
Enzymes help to break down proteins so that the bacteria can do their thing better.
where are the key cells involved in the immune response made?
What requires sunlight?
What interferes with an animal's ability to adjust to hot temperatures?
Lower temperature thresholds are at freezing.
When the algae dies it is decomposed by bacteria.
What physical feature of an animal can help it survive?
Which living creatures can be found in wetlands?
Light is made of photons .
Bare sandbars are the ideal spots for new stands of cottonwood.
An aquatic animal requires a great amount of what to live?
what is regulated by insulin?
evaporation causes what to form in the atmosphere
Ethologists study animal behavior.
What means breaking down boulders by weather?
what requires oxygen for cellular respiration?
Who can shiver?
Growth occurs in meristems.
leaves turn brown in which season?
What can be used for looking around in the dark?
Most chemical reactions are exothermic.
information in what's chromosomes cause genetic traits to be passed down to offspring?
A light bulb emits what when turned on?
Male dogs use urine to mark their territory the same way as they find what
Mars is known to 
Autotrophs are organisms that can make their own food.
Sharpening an object causes that object to change what?
Fuel cells are devices that directly convert hydrogen into electricity.
Breaking rocks apart can cause what?
Interestingly, a squid is also a mollusk.
What are simple units which are neither prokaryotes nor eukaryotes?
What designed for swimming are used for moving faster through water?
Animals use the oxygen to breathe.
Lions hunt together to provide food for the pride.
Carbon sinks are storage areas for carbon.
Why does vesicle transport need energy? 
What is how organisms grow and repair themselves?
What do ships transport?
Animals experience hunger, thirst, fear, sickness, injury and strong maternal instincts.
Without blubber, their fur is essential for survival.
Some viruses live in a dormant state with cold and flu what?
Prehistoric plants, for example, turn into light oils and gas.
Tides create current.
what kind of females does fertilization take place in?
what have special structures for penetrating a host?
Zygotes are diploid and undergo cell division to become an embryo.
What causes tremors?
Most animals that live on rocky shores eat what?
Lions are very scary animals.
Seasons are caused by the tilt of the axis relative to the planet's orbit.
What is essential for cellular respiration?
Parasites excrete toxic wastes.
The thing that cools the body contains what?
What can be found on malignant cells?
Most substances can exist as a solid, liquid or gas.
The looseness of soil has a positive impact on what plant part and growth in that soil.
All animals are what?
Wind belts in the Atlantic Ocean include the trade winds and the prevailing westerlies .
Birds are warm-blooded vertebrates.
Marine engines, with very few exceptions, are automobile engines converted to marine use.
buildings use a combination of production, exchange, and distribution of energy to for what
Fog is formed from what condensing?
What lays their eggs in a burrow?
An increase of heat is an increase of randomity in matter.
What is required by division?
Sex equals reproduction.
For example, the walls of plant cells are made in large part of starch and cellulose .
what can cause phase changes?
How to mammals nourish young?
what unit of time can be estimated by the rings in a tree trunk?
Sheep tend to favour the windward side of a paddock.
Tulip bulbs are tunicated.
Oral cancers can be deadly.
What happens to insects?
_ can change liquid to gas.
Typical mirror materials are quartz or nickel plated aluminum.
Parasites are organisms which live off a host.
Animals react instinctively to changes in their environment.
What has a positive impact on human's health?
Populations that are biodiverse might be called:
Natural openings on the surface, leading to caves are formed by what?
Ravens are big, black birds.
Oxygenated blood is red, deoxygenated blood is blue.
What does the Earth revolving around the Sun cause?
Slime molds found on rotting logs are what?
What influences plant growth, biodiversity, and adaptations of land organisms?
Tri-folds and half folds are acceptable if machine folded.
Paralytic shellfish cause harm to what?
Saturated fatty acids are used for:
fog is formed by water vapor condensing in the air
What do annelids enrich?
Mammals conserve body heat with their hair or fur.
The chance of you developing cancer depends most on your
Exercise promotes the formation of more mitochondria.
Everyone needs to conserve some energy to stay warm.
Characteristics include traits like shape, color, size, and texture.
Human diseases can be detected clinically.
What shapes are bluebells?
What exhibits phototropism?
Tobacco is smoked in pipes or in cigarettes or bidis.
What is required for breathing?
Roundworms reproduce sexually.
Thyroid hormones increase the rate of 
Temperature Temperature is recorded in degrees Celcius.
Fish are the consumers, and plants are the producers.
What can occur when menstruation stops?
Hot objects emit more energy than cold objects.
Ozone from cars creates smog.
Heterotrophics means fed by others.
The risks of all types of skin cancer increases with increasing
What is a cause of fog?
Oxygen for survival is necessary for what?
What is an endothermic tetrapod vertebrates?
What can help a fire to continue burning?
Sound Sound waves are mechanical waves.
Slime molds are fungus-like protists commonly found on rotting logs and compost.
what requires rest?
Plants are also the oldest living things.
Energy from the Sun drives Earth's weather system.
Prevention is key to their health, longevity, and reproduction.
What can form a rainbow?
What is one of the facets of an organism's evolution?
What heats frog eggs so that they may hatch into tadpoles?
What used for keeping food fresh for a long period of time?
Gametophytes arise from a protonema.
When carbon dioxide is in water, it creates carbonic acid.
An earthworm is an important
When does a gas's density decrease?
Deposition landforms also occur forming stalactites and stalagmites .
Some viruses can cause what kind of cell division?
What are flowers for?
If an object has weight it necessarily has mass.
What can power lasers?
Incineration requires very high temperatures for efficient combustion.
What do gametes turn into?
Rotation determines day and night, and the length of the day.
During the summer in Britain the sunlight strikes the Northern part of the Earth more directly.
All cells use glucose for energy.
All gametophytes are haploid.
What are generally adapted for devouring bugs in the garden?
What is oxygen used as in respiration?
All physical traits and some behavioral traits are determined by our genetic makeup.
What are in the animal kindgom?
Microbes provide nutrients to animals.
Sunlight is pure energy.
Biodiversity is a lot more than just the number of different plant and animal species.
What have woody trunks?
what can cause change to the environment?
What happens when an object is at equilibrium?
What do all fish breathe?
Parasites thrive on tissues in living hosts.
Another respiratory defense is the immune system.
Sperms can help prokaryotes what?
What helps species grow stronger?
For example, an earthquake hits San Francisco.
Gametophytes are photosynthetic and often heart-shaped.
What kind of species of animals mainly live in waters?
Mammals keep what with hair or fur?
The skin is richly supplied with nerves that enable the perception of pain, touch, heat, and cold.
What requires electrical energy to function?
Baby plants grow faster if separated with a large amount of roots.
What cause pollution to disperse?
crumple means change shape from smooth into compacted by physical force
What does BCRA2 sometimes cause?
Also, the nontranslating ribosomes competed with the translating ribosomes.
Photosynthesis is the process of making food.
What do leaves get from the sun?
What crawls and is known to have a complex nervous system? 
what does a light bulb require to produce light?
what do some plants use waxy leaves for?
What happening to something will not change its mass?
Why does it help for dirt to be loose?
Sebaceous glands associated with hair follicles protect the skin of mammals.
What is a way to heat a building?
Mammals can also generate little bursts of heat by
what carries deoxygenated blood?
All lenses are anti-fog coated to eliminate condensation.
Rain is liquid precipitation.
What doesn't hemp paper use?
In the winter months, animal fur is what for warmth?
information in an organism 's chromosomes cause genetic traits to be passed down to that organism 's offspring
An example is a dump or landfill.
Hair grows from a hair bulb under the skin.
why are seeds put in a greenhouse?
What are leaves used to store?
Solar energy is converted directly to electricity by the photovoltaic array.
Loamy soil is the best kind of soil.
When a force is exerted on an object, energy is transferred to the object.
Where is conserving water useful for survival?
Plants have an alternation of generations.
growth in what is caused by primary and secondary meristems in roots?
Adding sodium chloride to a solid does what?
Soils are sand, clay, and organic deposits.
Forests naturally keep what?
Acid rain can harm plant life and actually kill plants.
what learns how to behave through playing?
What does nectar attract?
What event does the lack of natural predators prevent?
Males are very aggressive during mating season.
TRH stimulates what?
the movement of tectonic plates causes what?
what is cells converting oxygen and carbohydrates into carbon dioxide, water, and energy?
Night or darkness represents spiritual darkness.
what build cells?
Each species of animal is unique.
condensing causes a liquid to form
Sponges are a source of food for many species of fish.
What can reproduce asexually by budding?
what do days become in fall?
Habitat destruction and urban sprawl are two other threats to the integrity of the ecosystem.
Mutation creates new genetic variation in a gene pool.
Many fresh-water rivers run into the sea.
What creates the sweet flavor in cookies?
If there are mutations, evolution occurs through mutation.
Seasonal changes such as winter to summer or fall to winter are best.
What can lead to oxidation of iron in rock?
Water bodies include rivers, creeks, lakes, and ponds.
what do some parasites kill but most don't?
Mammals are warm blooded, use lungs for respiration, and have four legs.
Ethanol depresses neuronal excitability.
Human hair dryers get too hot for a dog's skin and can overheat or even burn a dog.
Global warming linked to human emissions of heat-trapping gases is changing the planet's climate.
What requires a microscope in order to be seen?
what is used for conserving energy by some animals?
What are used for seeing in the absence of light?
Condensation releases energy into atmosphere.
Some animals, like moles and earthworms spend their entire lives underground.
Total permanant loss of sight is the inability to what?
What can you ride to get good exercise and avoid producing harmful gases?
What does not normally lay eggs?
what lacks chlorophyll?
what can be used to extend the shelf life of food
Public Transportation systems move people.
what exhibits phototropism?
What do some light bulbs convert other energy into?
People fall when they lose their sense of balance.
What do bacteria not have, for protein production?
Coal forms from dead plants, compacted.
Fatty tissue in a woman's body produces female hormones.
What can help some animals to adjust to hot temperatures?
What is caused by moving a magnet in a coil of copper wire?
What is part of the kidney structure?
Collectively, the sperm and the ova are also referred to as gametes .
What can copper be used in?
Without proper brain functioning the body dies.
What will be formed if a neutral atom loses an electron?
lack of _  causes low amounts of rainfall
carpooling decreases the amount of cars used to travel to a place
friction causes the speed of an object to decrease
Which is higher on the food chain?
Children see better with a source of electricity to do what?
Mollusks are soft-bodied invertebrates.
Air exchange in the root zone is essential for root growth.
What has a negative impact on the body?
What uses sounds, chemicals and visual cues?
Refrigerators are major users of electricity.
what have a centralized nervous system with a brain?
Weigh lifting requires muscles
Water in the rocks pushes out when it freezes thus causing the rocks to break.
Many birds perform elaborate courtship dances.
What is bad for ecosystems?
What affect does high pressure have on the boiling point
What is a potential outcome of genetic mutation?
some flowers become fruits
What is created when heat energy is reduced?
Aquatic animals moving through water are also subject to the principles of aerodynamics.
What is important in the winter season?
Insulation is a material with the ability to store heat.
An insulator is the opposite of a conductor.
Recycling cuts down on landfill.
Microbes are microscopic, single-celled organisms without a nucleus.
Survival is about making a living.
Cancer is an uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells.
Rabbits' brown summer fur is replaced with fur that is greyer.
The offspring of two humans with albinism are always
An overheated body can use water for:
When copper conducts heat it what?
What feature allows frogs to absorb substances from the environment?
what does energy require?
Most living things are called organisms.
Prokaryotes are single-celled organisms that lack a nucleus.
brain cells die quickly if what supply gets cut off?
What drives the genomic changing of the translational system?
what uses cellulose for their cell walls?
Ordinary phone is also a mobile device.
Pollen grains come from seed bearing plants.
Host specificity was also observed for some fungi and tree species.
Planet Mars Mars is the fourth planet from the sun and is most like Earth.
Sight is the ability to sense light, and the eye is the organ that senses light.
Prairie dogs live in underground burrows.
Leaves are the sites of photosynthesis.
being burried under soil and mud changes how what forms?
What uses food for energy?
Reuse is the best form of recycling.
Submarines use sonar to find objects under the water, including other submarines.
What condensing in clouds causes precipitation?
Dirt can keep animals warm.
What animal would not have its territory covered over by a housing development?
Plants obtain their energy from the sun.
Shallow tropical waters are remarkable places.
Dehydrating food is used to make it what?
What can find the location of an object?
Metamorphic rocks are rocks formed by the alteration of preexisting rocks deep within the Earth.
Animals store excess energy as fat.
Mechanical energy is the sum of Kinetic Energy and Potential Energy.
Eye and dental disorders sometimes cause headaches.
Human population growth has resulted in habitat destruction, causing massive extinctions.
Coal is used to do what regarding heat and electricity?
Cellular respiration involves a series of enzyme-mediated reactions.
Sound waves vibrate.
Plants reproduce by seeds and rhizomes.
Wind is air that is moving across the surface of Earth.
What stimulates the reproductive organs to develop into male organs?
when the seasons change from the summer to the fall, the days become what?
What are bird beaks often adapted to eat?
And from the spring there flows a river.
Cacti and succulents can go without water for a long period.
Plant reproduction is similar to animal reproduction.
what can generate little bursts of heat by shivering?
What is lost as the speed of an object decreases?
Cephalopods have the most advanced nervous systems of all invertebrates.
Nitrogen, as a gas, is colorless, odorless, and a generally inert element.
What is something that can be hazardous to use in public?
Salamanders, frogs and toads are amphibians.
what sheds its leaves seasonally?
What do radiators use to heat buildings?
Macroevolution can occur in the taxonomical level called:
Mangoes are propagated vegetatively and by seeds.
Thunderstorms and lightning Lightning often accompanies thunderstorms.
Arthropods are small animals with how many legs?
Sensory neurons run anteriorly from the nerve ring to the sensory organs in the head.
What is used for energy in most cells?
What can rain cause?
Membranes attached to the cricoid cartilage .
when does mating begin?
Mammals include lions, bears, dogs, horses, cattle and antelopes.
What is the transmission of genes?
Electric power sources are ordinary batteries.
Sulfites keep foods fresh-looking (e.g., fruits, vegetables) and help prevent bacteria from growing.
what females nest in a burrow and wait for the hatching?
crossing two living things with what will cause their offspring to have it?
What can our ears detect?
Shifting in the Earth's crust are caused by what?
Bats are animals that fly around at night.
What uses electricity as an energy source?
What is used to protect the body from acid?
Vertebrae, ribs, appendages, and the jaw are endoskeletal bone.
Head hair is especially important in preventing heat loss from the body.
Because air is free to move, it very readily reacts to forces exerted upon it.
what can alcohol make?
Ethical behavior for Wilson is patriotic behavior.
where might carbon be stored for million of years?
Sand and mud are examples of sediments.
what can acid help dissolve?
ice wedging is when ice causes rocks to crack by expanding in openings
What is it called when worldwide heat increases?
What happens to the shape of the card when you bend it into three sections?
Endocrine organs are ductless glands that secrete hormones into the bloodstream.
Soil can be depleted of what?
The less direct the sunlight, the colder the weather.
Ethanol is the most widely used biofuel today.
What do animals eat for a positive impact on their health?
What can be harmed by poison?
Precipitation falls on the windward side of the mountain range.
Chicken and potatoes can be cooked in a pan on what?
For example, insulin is a protein hormone.
Leaves keep animals warm.
What can make humans sick?
Hearing is the act of perceiving sound.
Bacteria are prokaryote cells.
What may consist of fatty acids alone?
Industry is a major cause of the destruction of habitat.
Animals such as lions and tigers fight.
Plastics are made from petroleum and produce toxic waste.
Earthquakes and volcanoes are violent proof of Earth's shifting crust.
Plants require what for survival?
Where in a cell are ribosomes located?
Earthquakes and tremors are common in Yellowstone.
What happens when a wire is moved across a magnetic field?
H2O is the scientific name for water.
Why are marmots protected from wild fire?
What is used for cellular respiration for aerobic organisms?
Saccharides consisting of one simple sugar unit are called monosaccharides .
cutting down trees has a negative impact on the health of what?
What are single celled organisms that do not have a nucleus?
Birch trees are wood that are used to produce what?
The device used by biologists to make small things appear bigger was invented by whom?
What shows evolution over geologic time above the level of the species?
For example, when the tilt increases, the Northern Hemisphere in winter receives less heat.
What can liquid turn into?
Chemical energy Energy released as a result of chemical reactions.
What creatures have special excretory structures.
Sensing what requires the brain?
What extends something because of threatening behavior by predators?
Saving trees helps stop global warming.
What can convert battery energy into light?
Lavender induces restful sleep.
What can cause phase changes?
What is the thing that is created by damming a river made of?
What usually results from getting shots?
what is magnetized by electricity?
Thus, the food is cooked by heat generated internally.
what are heterotrophs?
Earthworm Jim the greatest soil munchin' annelid fansite has been re-located.
What is required before a chemical change?
What affects all plants and animals as the Earth revolves around the sun?
What happens to bamboo throughout its life?
Some animals with jointed what have special excretory structures
Photosynthesis is the conversion of electromagnetic energy into stored chemical energy.
Gladioluses are spectacular cut flowers.
What can cause harm to the eyes?
what helps plants reproduce?
How often does a thing arranged in clusters contain instructions for a single protein?
What is transported by sticking to the fur of an animal?
Plants convert carbon dioxide, water, and solar energy into what?" 
Where do most green producers live at on Earth?
What can turtles be infected with?
Producers make food from inorganic molecules.
Smoking Cigarettes smoking is habit-forming.
Influenza viruses change often.
Sea stars use a unique water vascular system with what?
Green what can be accomplished through pushing on pedals?
What can create toxic fumes?
Fossil Petrified wood is the state fossil.
What do all cells share?
What does meiosis cell division produce?
what produces spores that develop into gametophytes?
What happens on the formation where water moves sediment downstream?
what causes iron in rocks to oxidize?
Vapors are cooled and condensed into liquid.
Altitude and weather systems can change the air's pressure.
transportation technology requires what?
If an object reflects what toward the eye then that object can be seen
Sex cells, also called gametes, are the sperm in males and the ova in females.
How are bacteria destroyed on a stove?
Gravity causes what to be pulled down on Mars?
Earthquakes destroy bridges.
Some sediment comes from natural erosion.
What can cause animals to leave their environment?
For example, the windward side of a peninsula is the windiest side.
An insect's head has two feelers, or antennae.
Homogeneous mixtures are called solutions.
What has led to the increase in global warming?
Another measure of growth is population density.
What has a life cycle that includes alterations of generations?
what causes formations in caves
An effect is the result or outcome of some cause.
what are social?
what does water move downstream to form a sandbar?
Changes in the genetic information of an organism are what for evolution to occur?
An increase in temperature causes a gas to expand.
what uses thirst to realize it needs to replenish bodily water?
What helps soil to form?
Increased TRH stimulation is associated with hypothyroidism
What increases biodiversity?
If there is a greater dew point there is more water vapor.
What aspect of an bject causes the gravitational force exerted by that object?
Toasting bread creates carcinogens.
What do butterflies do to plants?
Energy is generated by sound waves.
For example, the word Car refers to a type of object, so Car is a class.
What can appear due to accidental alterations of the genetic code in a cell?
Genetic Mutations Genetic mutations occur frequently.
Rivers provide a water supply.
What causes the refraction of light?
What are stalactites deposits of?
High currents allow too much power, or electrical energy to be wasted in wires in the form of heat.
Mushrooms are an example of fungi.
What do male dogs use to mark their territory?
During urination, the urethra carries urine from the bottom of the bladder out of the body.
chemical weathering causes redness of the rocks containing what?
what do cars use?
what causes objects to heat?
Grasses are very basic plants with a root, stem and flower.
Water makes strong hydrogen bonds.
why does an egg require warmth?
What has a positive impact on a forest animal's survival?
Unlike larger particles, the smaller particles are able to enter the respiratory system.
An electric light bulb is a light source.
What can cycles of freezing and thawing water cause this type of weathering?
Animals that survive develop an immunity, but are also carriers for life.
Shark gills remove the oxygen from the water.
Erosion of dunes leads to erosion of the beach and of the Island.
Sexual reproduction combines an egg and a sperm.
Solar UV radiation levels are highest during the middle of the day.
What will decrease the melting point of a liquid?
Food for the plant is made in the leaves.
Larger values create bigger brushes.
Where is a fire least likely to start?
Largest of the oceans on Earth is the Pacific Ocean .
Motion helps to increase body heat.
Triglycerides are a storage form of energy.
What stage is associated with apoptosis?
what can animals be startled by?
What can a windmill provide energy for?
Nematodes are microscopic roundworms.
What can vaccines do?
Fertile soil is loose, absorbent and pleasant smelling.
a rainbow is formed by what of light by separating light into all different colors
Infection often causes death.
Fertilization is the penetration of the egg by a sperm.
Puberty leads to hormonal and sexual changes.
What can a laser produce?
Excessive accumulation build-up of carbon monoxide can cause suffocation.
What causes causes thermal expansion?
what do lions live in?
What do fusion of sperm and egg create?
Photosynthesis allows for plants to do what?
Most deserts occur in regions that typically have high atmospheric pressure.
what provides more sunlight to surrounding plants by falling?
What can a flashlight use to produce light?
Plants are grown in greenhouses and protected from wild butterflies.
All kinds of weather are discussed including hurricanes.
Which species doesn't have an anterior or posterior end?
Food proteins are changed into energy or heat to be used or absorbed by the body.
What is essential to make food palatable?
Animals require what to grow and heal?
Most animals require water regularly.
Antibodies are manufactured by the immune system.
For every one gallon of gasoline an engine burns, one gallon of water is produced as a by-product.
What does frozen water break?
All sounds begin with vibrations.
What can bring a stronger sun? 
What converts chemical energy into mechanical energy?
If an animal has a spinal column in their skeletal system what is it called?
What can have a negative impact on a species' population size?
And combustion equals power.
People consume foods that are cold from refrigeration.
A gateway to second adulthood occurs when what happens?
What is a source of  illness?
What could occur should a person scrape themselves?
Bacteria, viruses or parasites can cause sickness.
Flood waters rise rapidly.
New sprouts emerge from the roots.
What stimulates the reproductive organs to develop testicles?
What falls decreasingly on the earth from the equator to the poles?
Species is a property of genus, genus is a property of family, etc.
Cells are also the basic functioning unit of life.
Plant cell types rise by mitosis from a meristem .
What sense can be used to detect the smoothness of an object
The changes in species that have been seen over time required
Ants communicate via
The growth in what comes from primary and secondary meristems can be measured with a ruler?
Reptiles include crocodiles.
Food, water and air are the essentials of life on earth.
All people belong to the human family.
What can cause chemical weathering?
what is a tape measure used to measure?
Centrifugal force exactly balances gravitational force.
Arrange carpools to conserve fuel.
melting means changing from a solid into a liquid by adding heat energy
What are mammals?
What may bend light rays?
what can use sound for communication?
Sunglasses help protect the eyes from glare off the river surfaces.
What does a rubber band snapping cause?
a valley is formed by a river flowing
The gravitational pull of the major planets alters the orbital period from revolution to revolution.
Acid rain is very bad and can hurt the environment.
Drought decreases the availability and abundance of the natural food supply.
What is an important survival trait?
What infects and destroys the brains behind immune response?
What tends to be related to bacteria?
Population size is a function of natality and mortality.
Marine dolphins are endangered by fishing nets, speedboats, and pollution.
What can cause cell walls to relax?
what are light bulbs powered by?
Ray translates as light .
Influenza Virus Inluenza virus are negative-strand RNA viruses with a segmented genome.
Sweat glands help regulate our body temperature and release water and salt.
What happens when we receive less sunlight?
What are used to avoid stumbling around in basements?
What does a firecracker turn into sound?
People with weaker immune systems are more likely to get sick from contaminated foods.
If the nucleus breaks up into lighter elements, it is called fission .
Breastfeeding provides passive and likely long-lasting active immunity.
What requires the pupil?
What are molecules that the immune system recognizes as foreign to the physical entity?
What happens when muscles around the prostate gland contracts?
The molecules secreted by activated B cells are part of the:
Why do animals learn to behave?
Sunlight is made of 
Most carcinogens can cause cancer by causing mutations to what?
What senses differences in temperature?
Metals conduct heat energy .
gravity causes objects that have mass to be pulled down on a planet
Birds live on Earth, trees live on Earth.
Silt forms form the weathering of rocks.
What causes a gas to condense?
What is caused by Earth 's tilt on its rotating axis?
What can be used to generate heat?
Gelatinous coating helps seeds stick to fur and clothing when wet.
Mitosis is a simple, single cell division .
Mammals are warm blooded animals.
What prevents insects from being killed?
Light and sound are waves.
Chemical splash goggles are advised.
Fertile topsoil is then lost in erosion.
Water can cause what?
Translation reads the genetic code in mRNA and makes a protein.
Sunlight and warmth are vital to the incubation of eggs and a successful hatch of fry.
Leaf blades contain cellulose and hemi-cellulose that are readily broken down by microbes.
The genetic material responsible for heredity contains what?
What are specialized organs in plants?
All organisms have a life-span.
When a body of water receives more water than it can hold, spores are washed into where?
Animals eat plants for food.
Genes are blueprints for making proteins.
Microbial fuel cells convert chemical energy into what?
creating paper may cause
Roots are negatively phototropic.
What evolved from a group of bipedal dinosaurs called theropods?
nephrons are the structural and functional units of what?
Too little of what can change the color of an environment from green to brown?
What is affected by too fast or slow respirations?
The vanes rotating in an electric fan causes what?
Frostbite is the freezing of body parts.
What forms secondary vascular tissues in trees?
what gets increased in the soil from decomposition?
Light is a type of electromagnetic radiation.
Hormones such as adrenaline are also pumped into the body.
Where do organic molecules in beef store energy?
How is volume measured Vital capacity is a volume measurement.
Communities consist of populations of what?
Electricity is a kinetic energy.
Like eye color in humans it is a genetic trait.
what has a life cycle that includes alternation of generations?
cell division often causes growth
What becomes larger when cell walls relax?
Wiring requires copper or what?
What forms into liquid from the air?
Pneumonia may be caused by an infection or injury of the lungs.
Shelter from weather is critical.
Bones act as a reservoir for calcium.
What and a semi-solid mass of waste are removed from the body?
what moves by having the pedals pushed on?
What happens when microorganisms get on food?
communities consist of what kind of population?
what is the status of reefs?
migrants typically what long distances?
Chemotherapy and radiotherapy target the rapidly dividing cancer cells.
Cells what as well as shape is related to their forms and functions
All matter emits vibrations.
Which of the following added to groundwater creates caverns?
Speed is controlled by pedalling and by pushing back on the moving pedals.
Certain types of electricity production can cause acid rain and contribute to:
Natural gas is a fossil fuel.
Gene A gene is the basic unit of heriditary information.
Adaptation is the result of natural selection.
What do monkeys use eyes for?
Light is reflected refracted or absorbed.
What food contains no bacteria
Lakes and streams are sources of drinking water.
Cells, the basic units of every living organism, proliferate by binary division.
Leaves change color, snow falls, and spring brings back the greenery.
Acid rain can destroy soil.
What can plants tolerate?
where are genetic traits encoded into?
Lions hunt in prides, the killing is usually done by the swifter young lions.
Trees have the ability to undergo secondary growth and produce a woody body.
what can matter vibrating cause?
if an animal sweats it can cause
What does looseness of soil have an impact on?
what is used for moving people across bodies of water?
Producers use energy and inorganic molecules to make food.
Major organs, including the kidneys and liver, begin to grow.
Common dolphins are mammals.
pushing and pulling an object will increase its what
Animals move around, seeking their prey.
Toxic food causes harm to what?
what do roots turn into?
What increases the temperature of a bearing?
what high-mass object forms black holes?
Then, in 1897, a man named David Misell invented the flashlight.
Landfills are the places that our garbage is taken to be buried.
Flagella help prokaryotes move.
Aerobic respiration requires Oxygen.
Many of the molecules in food are called nutrients.
Warm tropical waters provide unrivaled encounters.
What is stored in the stem of the saguaro?
What is common in the southwestern portion of the subsection?
what do snowmelts feed?
When melted or dissolved in water, the crystal lattice is destroyed and the ions move freely.
Summer means hot, humid weather.
skin is used for protecting the body from harmful substances
Electricity is a form of energy.
Passenger pigeons are extinct.
What do bacteriophages infect?
Minerals Minerals are inorganic elements.
Deltas are typical on coastlines with large rivers.
Beech wood fires burn bright and clear If the logs are kept a year.
Mollusks have a circulatory system with one or two hearts that pump blood.
Carbohydrates in plants are formed by photosynthesis.
Growth has expanded rapidly.
Air is primarily oxygen and nitrogen.
Haploid gametes unite to form diploid zygote.
If the virus is nonenveloped it is released by lysing the host cell.
What allows organisms to give rise to offspring?
What type of habitat can be formed by sediment moved downstream by water?
What has a negative impact on an ecosystem?
Pollen consists of tiny grains that are the _  of plants.
When caves contain connecting rooms, they are called caverns.
Leptospirosis is a corkscrew shaped bacteria.
What happens when there is an increase in heat energy?
What do some plants have none of?
Amphibians have sense organs to smell and taste chemicals.
Competition may lead to aggressive behaviors or displays of aggression.
what is a mirror used for reflecting?
What occurs when cell walls ease up?
How do warm-bodied creatures control their temperature for survival?
operating an automobile usually requires fossil fuels
what does hydrogen bonds cause to expand when it freezes?
What may compete for territory, water, food, or mates?
what changes the amount of daylight?
what is yard waste good for?
folding an object causes that object to change shape
An animal which may have one or two hearts to pump blood is:
what is the element that increases the oxygen near the fire?
The windiest side of a mountainous peninsula also has the most of what?
What does a stove use fire for?
Sucrose causes food to what?
What helps to insulate and protect the body?
Foods usually were covered with copious quantities of salt or saturated salt brine, and the salt was allowed to infuse into the tissue while dehydrating the product.
Fish include bass, crappie, and catfish.
Electric motors convert electrical energy into mechanical energy.
What can slowly dissolve carbon in sedimentary rock?
Cancer can result in death.
More than 500 homes have been damaged by flood waters.
What can being exposed to wind do?
what do pupils get when reacting to strong stimuli?
What forms silica sand?
clouds are formed by water vapor rising into colder regions of the atmosphere and condensing
And fewer cars means less pollution.
Air, too, contains oxygen.
All mutant traits are recessive.
What can create sand dunes by transporting and depositing sand.
What is the total mass of primary consumers
What does sunlight do to a plant?
What have a negative impact on an organism?
 insects communicate with what
How can water vapor be detected?
Afferent information is information that is inbound to the nervous system.
What erodes soil?
Water is needed by plants to keep growing.
Gasoline and flammable liquid related burns, however, are a preventable problem.
What forms sedimentary rocks?
Sperm and egg nuclei combine to do what?
excitotoxicity can do what to the structural units of the nervous system?
Dromaeosaurs are part of the theropod group of dinosaurs.
Generator A generator produces electricity.
What are one form of changing from a gas into a liquid by reducing heat energy
Wetlands are extremely important biomes.
Which is not a cell?
What is the final stage of mitosis in eukaryotes and prokaryotes?
Recycling saves resources and reduces pollution.
Colors use the sense of sight.
what have complete digestive systems?
High Pressure areas usually produce fair weather.
What has specialized reproductive organs?
Seasonal variations and random changes in the environment affect species' life histories and stocks.
what causes wind?
what's leaves may increase as it grows?
Carpet beetle larvae feed on the keratin and chitin commonly found in wool, fur, or feathers.
What helps prokaryotes move?
Which item found in the human body is smaller? 
Softwoods, on the other hand, are gymnosperms .
What keeps penguins warm?
Clouds are one form of condensation.
Specialization occurs when competing groups of interbreeding individuals evolve different what?
Magnetism can cause what to repel each other?
what takes in food by eating producers or other living things?
To survive, some organisms living near hydrothermal vents have formed close associations.
Wood stoves for cooking and heating.
What is most likely to result from warm air advancing on cold air?
Environment and Health Environment and Health All living things depend on their environment.
What usually changes in the autumn season?
What can cause erosion and landslides?
Although hair is created by living follicles in the scalp, it's dead.
What will rocks all do? 
Predators are organisms which eat other organisms for energy.
What is used for used for seeing in the dark?
Food Food poisoning is avoidable.
Peat moss is the organic matter that mixes with soil to form peat.
What is needed from cells for phosphatases to keep the proper pH?
Life affects environment, environment affects life.
Where do mammals make urine?
What converts electrical energy to increased temperature?
What can be fatal?
What is erosion?
What sort of circulatory system do frogs, toads, and salamanders share?
Disease has a negative impact on
Some assassin bug bites can cause an allergic, life-threatening reaction in humans.
what is burned to produce heat?
What can learn behavior that is intended to cause harm or pain?
What is formed by the bending of light?
Bacteria, fungi and plants can be used to break down organic compounds or extract metals.
Also pyrite within the altered wall rock is oxidized to limonite, geothite and hematite.
Potential energy is energy stored.
Contact between solid mineral deposits over long periods of what causes them to smooth
What is an animal experiencing when they need to replenish their body water?
Plants use the direct light energy from the sun to grow.
Milk was loaded with bacteria that quickly spoiled, making it undrinkable.
Most fungi get organic compounds from what?
When it rains, the roots absorb water quickly and the plants store the water in the stems.
What is made from cell walls?
an aquatic animal requires great amounts of water to survive
Plants detect and respond to the what such as during the flowering when hours are fewer
Male orgasm and ejaculation are inhibited.
Oxygen is essential for cellular respiration for all aerobic organisms.
Barn swallows are Neotropical migrants.
what does a hemisphere need to be tilted away from the receive less sunlight?
Riding a bike reduces what?
Breathing affects the flow of hormones through the endocrine system.
Lilies continually produce new bulbs, from which grow new plants.
Scraping oneself on a contaminated object may cause an invasion of the body by what?
an image in a mirror is formed by reflecting
An exercise is a movement designed to work a specific muscle or muscles.
What acts as an aid to a car engine converting gasoline into motion and heat?
What can shed their leaves?
What does plant reproduction require?
How does insulation help animals?
tidal energy can be used to produce electricity
Flowing water can slowly _ carbon in limestone.
where are gametophytes?
muscle contraction occurs when a diagonally oriented part of muscle gets what?
Antigens are molecules that the immune system recognizes as needing to be what?
what does it mean if an object can be focussed on the retina?
What do cancer cells produce?
More bacteria mean healthier soil.
DNA contains the instructions, proteins carry out the instructions.
poison causes harm to living things
What continues when sperm swim to an egg inside an archegonium?
Where do humans receive energy from?
When the Amazon floods it deposits what in flood plain?
Mitosis often causes what?
And like fire, flooding is a common and widespread natural disaster.
A mutation in parent's sex cells can cause new traits to appear in a what?
All plants live and grow by photosynthesis.
Yeasts Yeasts are simple eukaryotes .
Where do lakes get energy from?
What effect will a hemispheric tilt away from the sun have on the forests there?
Wood can help Fire to burn.
And without adequate calories, the birds die from the cold.
Like all plants, it needs sunlight and warmth to grow.
Bacterial contamination can spread diseases to humans and livestock.
What protects plants from the cold?
Greenhouses are made with glass , fiberglass , polyethylene, or vinyl coverings.
Brain cells die quickly if their what supply is cut off
Atoms are tiny particles that are too small to see.
What do plants detect because of their circadian rhythm?
Elimination of urine is normally a voluntary process for adults.
igneous intrusion causes vein deposits of what?
Which chemical controls sexual development and reproduction in females?
The master gland of the body produces what stimulating hormone?
Arthropods are the what without a backbone?
what are united in fertilization for form a diploid zygote?
Urochordates are commonly called tunicates.
Besides nitrogen and oxygen, the atmosphere contains many, many other molecules in trace amounts.
Fermentation is the chemical change of sugar to alcohol.
What kind of circulatory system do fish have?
preventing the transfer of heat from an organims 's body causes that organism to keep warm
Freezing and thawing cause what type of weathering?
injury of the lungs can be caused by what
Blenders, mixers, lawn mowers convert that same electrical energy into mechanical motion.
All vertebrates have a backbone or vertebral column.
What has to happen for roundworms to reproduce?
Strength training is also effective for increasing bone strength in older adults.
Many of the same plants and animals can be found in many other types of habitats.
If a thing becomes too cold then it will die and do what?
What occurs a set number of times?
Energy from the sun evaporates water from the oceans to make clouds.
Phytoplankton, or plant plankton, needs sunlight to live, the same way plants on land do.
Diatoms are the predominant phytoplankton.
What aspect of light changes when it passes from air into a prism?
What is an anomaly in coiled structures made of DNA and proteins?
A rainbow is formed by what of rays?
What is reproduction needed for?
When happens when liquids are heated above a certain point?
_ splashing can cause harm to humans
What occurs as cells lose their ability to divide?
what are used to produce current?
Automobile engines transform chemical energy into what sort of energy for objects?
Ants and butterflies have antennae.
What can cause connective issues to swell?
Arthropods are animals with external skeletons and jointed legs.
How do you put out a fire?
Chemical splash goggles provide maximum protection from splashes.
What two things does grass require?
What is the process by which living things give rise to offspring?
Trees have roots.
Limestone Limestone Limestone is a grey rock that is made of calcite.
An apple tree produces an apple fruit.
Predators kill and eat their prey.
Most electricity is created with a turbine generator.
electricity is used as an energy source by electrical devices
Lower energy means lower temperature.
What does bacteria do?
Echinoderms use pheromones to communicate with each other.
Arteries and veins are blood vessels.
What can affect genes that control the cell cycle?
When electricity flows to a light bulb, the energy it uses becomes what?
Most invertebrates are what?
Heating an egg causes a _  reaction in the egg
Most plants grow roots down into the soil to absorb water and minerals.
Metabolism is the process of converting food to energy.
What do plants require to make food?
Urine is a product of what organ of the body that is excreted by the urinary system?
Marine biomes are found in the salt water of the ocean.
Marshes and swamps are wetlands.
Plants are sensitive organisms.
What type of energy is produced the most worldwide?
What do ecosystems use sunlight for?
Actual stages of mitosis can be viewed at Animal Cell Mitosis .
Evening had arrived quickly, and it was almost too dark for the old man to see where to step safely.
Cells obtain energy from the blood with the help of
What has increased in the air dramatically over the last decade?
Destructive forms include erosion and weathering.
What does rain do to plants?
What is provided by vanes rotating in an electric fan?
Friction occurs when two substances rub together.
Bones of the cranium Identify the bones of the face.
Adult sponges produce sperm and what other sex cell?
What can't echinoderms do?
With specialization, what do competing species evolve to do?
What did Andrew and Fran have?
chemical weathering causes what to change to limonite
Energy enters an ecosystem as sunlight.
What do igneous rocks form into when heated?
What requires energy?
Mammals require what for breathing?
What do male dogs use in urine to mark their territory?
harming an animal species has a negative impact on the what?
What can form from vapor?
what has secondary growth?
What decreases when we decrease the amount of cars traveling to one place?
using a gasoline engine requires burning gasoline
Ethanol is a grain alcohol.
What is caused by cycles of water freezing and thawing?
what can a cactus stem store?
Glaciers melt via
What do plants build their cell walls from?
What has a positive effect on an ecosystem?
if plants require less water, then that plant can survive when?
Temperature regulation is an example of homeostasis.
Plastics are a type of petrochemical, that is, they are created from petroleum.
Consumers include insects and animals.
Conserving water can be used for survival in which region?
What is required for a light bulb to produce light?
bacteria in soil convert atmospheric nitrogen into a form usable by plants
What plant processes convert carbon dioxide, water and solar energy into carbohydrates?
what has permeable skin that easily absorbs substances from the environment?
A bulb requires electrical energy to produce what?
Fire needs oxygen in the air to keep burning.
Coal-fired plants Are power stations which burn coal to generate electricity.
What is formed by rain and rough weather?
Plants are always at the bottom of the food chain or web.
Plants detect and respond to
Heat transfer fluids, such as antifreeze, protect the solar collector from freezing in cold weather.
More sunlight is absorbed by the dark colored rock.
Plants use what for their cell walls?
what can be used for separating a solute from a volatile vehicle
Moose courtship begins in autumn.
what uses chlorophyll for absorbing light energy?
Animals lack cell walls.
Cells make up plants and animals what?
Erosion causes destruction of aquatic habitats due to siltation and flooding.
Which of the following passes through an eye's pupil
Animals behave according to instinct.
Why do ducks move faster through water?
What can mutate cells?
What is bilaterally symmetrical and a protostome?
Copper is an excellent conductor of electricity.
Acid rain can be a result of:
what does having no natural predators mean creatures have to be?
Exercise is fun if it is also play.
Most beaches are of white coral sand.
Freezing is a physical change.
That which is healthy when informed can take in what by eating producers?
What forms in warm water?
Mammals include squirrels, muskrats, opposums, and deer.
Cooking is essential to make food palatable.
plant reproduction requires
What is not changed by melting?
What has a positive impact on baby plants?
Which of these insects can harm living things?
A battery is a store of chemical energy.
What happens when salt water is boiled?
LEDs are an ideal light source.
Magma that erupts through volcanoes is known as lava.
Energy-saving is important when electrical energy is used to produce what
Each species lasts for a time, sometimes surviving to the present and sometimes going extinct.
what do mulberry trees shed seasonally?
What do plants respond to?
Trunk muscles are the muscles of abdominal wall, thorax, backbone and pelvic cavity.
A good way for older adults to strengthen bones is to 
What do tadpoles use to breathe?
Pollinators: Bees, and particularly honey bees, are the primary pollinators.
What property does something made with iron have?
Cars are heavy polluters of the environment.
Granite is rock formed by fire.
What in DNA, carried by genes, have instructions?
What conserves body heat with their fur?
What converts chemical energy into sound?
what has a negative impact?
Centrioles come in pairs.
Sunlight is composed of photons, or particles of solar energy.
Where does moist air fall on a mountain?
Fitness traits relate to an animal s ability to survive and reproduce.
CO 2 and SO 2 are both given off when coal is burned to provide heat or to generate electricity.
Veins push blood toward the heart.
Where do plants that grow in hot, dry deserts store water?
a mold spore has a negative impact on the respiratory system
what season do animals conserve energy?
What happens to the air inside an ocarina when you blow into it?
Why do plants photosynthesize?
Algae produce oxygen during the day through photosynthesis.
Fish can survive in water by using their gills to extract the dissolved oxygen.
_ are needed to maintain energy levels 
Generally, mountains are good places to find fossils.
What can teach animals how to behave?
If there is a fierce emotion near a stream, that stream somehow records that.
What is one thing all organisms do?
Genes live on chromosomes, chromosomes live in cells.
Oxygen and glucose share this mechanism in the body:
Modern classifications of the tetrapods rely on the structure of the skull .
Shrubs, trees, bushes are all powerfully rooted plants.
What is formed when water vapor turns from a gas to a liquid?
Aggressive driving combined with a distracted driver can quickly escalate into a lethal situation.
Light is described both as wavelengths and photons.
Viruses Viruses Viruses are simple units which invade cells.
Background Hot water vents form inside cracks in the ocean floor.
Surface ships use sonar to locate and track submarines.
What has a positive impact on mans survival?
The force of water against a seed coat causes it to what?
How do lions get food?
Firm hugs and hiding under piles of pillows provides the sensory input to the skin known as deep touch-pressure input.
Soil erosion is a serious problem in production agriculture.
Another, more immediately feasible, technology for rapid transport is the maglev train.
Playing is one way mammals and other animals learn how to behave.
what causes the immune system to not work properly?
what are invertebrates?
What organ helps take up glucose from the blood?
Bacteria are single-celled animals.
What results in higher levels of UV radiation reaching Earth?
What is formed when a high mass celestial body collapses?
Recycling saves energy, conserves natural resources and helps protect the environment.
Migrant birds arrive.
Favorite food is steak.
if an object in a fluid is more dense than that fluid then that object will sink in that fluid because of gravity
Chloroplasts Chloroplasts serve as the site of photosynthesis.
fish eat foods with varied what
what do viruses infect?
climate is the average what over a long period of time?
What's one thing beavers require to survive?
What do fish require to survive?
if a thermal conductor is exposed to a source of heat then that conductor may become hot
How the sounds are made Vibrating strings provide the sound in stringed instruments.
What affects the flowering of soybeans?
What can help with seeing in the dark?
Coal-fired power stations are inherently modular.
What detects hybrids of the substance that helps assemble proteins?
flukes, tapeworms, and turbell are
Earth 's tilt on its rotating axis causes seasons to change
Seismic waves are produced by earthquakes.
Being exposed to wind can cause what?
what fossils have to be found in a place to signify the place used to be covered by water?
What do all animals need?
Evolution occurs in response to a change in the environment.
An egg requires warmth to do what?
What relies on a narrow pH range?
The Purpose of Refrigeration The fundamental reason for having a refrigerator is to keep food cold.
Causes seasons by changing angle of sun.
If the body goes without its requirements a person will eventually get what after a few days
Communities consist of populations of different species.
what produces carbon monoxide?
Mental illness has a negative impact on what?
Blood carries blood cells.
Plants breathe oxygen into the atmosphere.
Ethologists usually study how animals behave in their natural environment.
Where do currents flow?
Damage is intensified by moisture stress during drought.
What reduces a human's bodily water?
What can cause objects to heat?
What does carbon dioxide cause?
What converts chemical energy into a powerful energy source?
Liquid water holds a huge amount of heat energy and resists changes of state to solid or gas.
What type of stored chemical energy do plants create?
What is the evolution over a geologic time in a specific kind of organism called?
what has beaks adapted for the food they eat?
Building housing developments usually requires doing what to numerous plant and animal species?
What is a flower's job?
Asexual reproduction occurs in several different ways.
Activation energy is required to overcome the energy barrier.
When you reuse products you reduce resources but also protect the?
Some what will kill their host, while others won't?
what increases cancer risk?
What is it called when male gametes are propelled because of muscle contractions?
An earthworm has five hearts.
what are made in an organelle in the cytoplasm?
What can be found when an animal uses their sense of olfication?
Mutations are changes in the genetic material.
Earthworms are terrific for plants and are important what?
Black objects
All wind is simply air moving.
What is a form of vesicle transport that requires energy?
What causes acid rain?
Evaporation occurs when a liquid dries.
Smaller rocks come from the interaction of bedrock with what over long periods of time
What do bees use the male gametes of plants for?
A flashlight requires what to produce light?
What are kids fascinated with moving?
People can be moved where in an airplane?
conserving resources has a positive impact on the environment
Reducing body-heat can also decrease an animal's what?
What swims from male to female reproductive organs in fertilization?
The moon's gravitational pull on Earth 's oceans causes the vertical movement of what?
Opossums are a type of mammal called marsupials.
what does poison cause harm to?
what are caused by the same reason that one side of the Earth receives less energy from the sun
What binds together to form RNA and DNA
Evaporation of sweat uses what from the body?
Scotland s lochs , including the famous Loch Ness, are glacial lakes.
Nematodes make up a phylum which is what?
What is formed by electrons separating from interstellar gases?
Linear Measure Linear measure is used in determining distances and lengths, widths or thicknesses.
What comes out of rocks breaking apart?
sinkholes are formed by precipitation
What destroys bacteria in food?
What might happen to animals disturbed by humans?
lungs are used for breathing air by land animals
a mutation in the _ of a parent can cause a new trait to appear in the parent 's offspring
Photosynthesis gives a plant energy.
What causes a bike to move?
Archegonium secretes sucrose to attract the sperm.
What provides the regeneration of cells for the body?
what does hitting an object cause?
What creates winter?
how traits are passed down, or inherited, is found in information in an organism's what?
Electricity flows through an electric motor in a fan, causing the fan's blades to turn.
Porcupines are in the rodent family.
H20 Bottled water was generally consumed last year.
After the cold front passes, be prepared for clear, cold days ahead.
an organism requires energy for growth
Aeolian erosion of sand in the desert is partially responsible for the formation of sand dunes.
Well, when riding a bike, human power is used to turn the pedals.
What provides protection for internal organs?
what can blow air?
Elephants are the largest land animals.
Bacteria can cause people to do what?
Coral reefs are predominantly calcite.
What interferes with cooling of the body?
Soil receptive to water absorption has a positive impact on what aspect of the plant?
what are some animals adjusting to by using sweat?
pushing on the pedals of a bike cause what?
What is public transportation used to transport large amounts of?
Global wind patterns are caused by
Bees and other insects are agents.
stratosphere composition causes higher levels of what reaching Earth
What occurs when a male gamete swims to an egg?
What does a batter cause the in the particles of a ball?
What can increase a body's strength?
Where does a pan usually heat meals?
What are the largest group of animals?
How do mammals learn to behave?
When a bacteria is in a resting state, where can you find it?
Visible light is made up of all the colors of the spectrum.
Viruses are what kind of organisms?
What do parasites live on?
Computers are electronic devices that deal in pulses of electricity.
Electrical sources are potential hazards.
Male dogs use what in their urine to mark their territory?
The total mass of organisms in an environmental stage is called what?
What does a mirror reflect?
Earthworms are annelids meaning segmented.
Some viruses do not affect the host and live in what kind of state in the body?
Photosynthesis stores energy in plants.
Energy levels go up with high stamina and decreased recovery time from fatigue.
What are created through erosion?
DNA excision repair is a major cellular response to DNA damage.
What can prevent an allergic reaction?
plants roots associate with bacteria in where
a very heavy material is formed by what?
Ice crystals are formed when a neutral atom does what?
what do organisms aerate?
what's bodily water decreases when it sweats?
Sediment can be formed by
Inside the caves are some young stalactites and stalagmites in formation.
Smell and taste belong to our chemical sensing system.
Pupils are reactive to light and accommodation.
Population densities affect the balance of the environment.
What breathing use gills to convert oxygen in blood?
Cells are the basic units allowing what in all living things
Where is energy stored before being used by an automobile to create mechanical energy?
What can be done to prevent illness from eating oysters?
Plants respond to daily and seasonal cycles and to disease.
what keeps humans warm?
What will die without a supply of blood?
Humans are heterotrophic eukaryotes.
What is a source of nutrition for many fish?
Tidal energy is one of the oldest forms of energy used by humans.
what helps cells to lower the blood sugar?
Energy is passed up a food chain or web from lower to higher trophic levels.
Most of the energy a light bulb uses turns into heat.
What can be removed to preserve food?
Because ferns lack flowers and seeds, they reproduce through spores.
evolution over what time above the level of the species includes speciation events
A valley is formed by
Electrical energy is also energy.
what study animals in their natural environment?
what are read in mRNA and a protein is made
Shrub beds and ground covers require less water and provide more variety to the landscape.
What is ethanol produced from?
What is soil erosion?
blowing and causing air to vibrate makes what
What factor is instrumental behind the change of leaf colors during the year?
Students should describe how the electrical energy from the batteries changed to light energy in the flashlight bulb and then to heat energy that could be felt.
what causes food to taste sweet
A flashlight does this.
when metal conducts heat , that metal expands
what usually has clear weather
Most pituitary hormones control other what?
Another animal that lives within the Marine Biome is a sea tiger.
All waste was sent to the landfill.
the movement of an air mass over Earth 's surface causes local weather changes
Acids and bases are electrolytes.
Bacteria causes food to be what?
What happens in the archegonium?
What cannot be found on the moon?
What material will become hot if exposed to a heat source?
Dioxins are the byproducts of combustion processes.
Biochemical reactions are catalyzed by enzymes that have very narrow ranges of optimum pH values.
Plants represent the first trophic level.
Electricity requires the movement of electrical charges.
Millions of tiny mirrors move to reflect the light and create the image on a projection screen.
Where do most fungi get their protein?
Thermal expansion can cause serious problems.
Although it is important to keep warm during the winter season, it's also important to keep safe.
Ejaculation is the expulsion of semen.
Ducks have webbed feet, designed for swimming.
What do ants use to communicate?
Black holes are considered to be spheres.
Euglenoids reproduce by what?
Echinoderms lack a centralized nervous system.
Flowers produce seeds for reproduction.
What has good eyesight and a keen sense of smell?
What is when a cell converts from oxygen and carbohydrates into carbon dioxide, water, and energy?
Electricity is electrons in motion.
Thus one important job the squirrel does in the ecosystem is to plant trees.
Biomass is the total mass of organisms at a step in the what?
Some what make their own membranes?
what can change the color of an environment from green to brown?
Within any species, there is genetic diversity.
the gravitational pull of the Moon on Earth's oceans pumps what into the oceans?
Sweating reduces body heat.
Earthworms and other soil organisms keep the soil healthy.
What develops near vascular tissues?
Perimeter is the total length around the object.
Then liquid freezes to a solid.
Glucose All sugars get converted to glucose in the blood.
What makes living creatures appear bigger?
What differ strongly in appearance and are barrel shaped?
Sunlight, however, is harmful to the skin.
the area where what growth occurs is located within and around the vascular tissues
what do petals attract to the flower?
What do aphids use to detect sound?
Sonar bounces sound waves off the bottom of the ocean.
Air carries moisture that causes a what to form
Rivers are long flowing waters.
Cellular respiration occurs in the mitochondria.
a solution is formed when one of these gets dissolved into another one of these
The mass of a planet causes the what?
Where would solar panels be most effective?
When white light hits a prism it is seen as the seven rainbow colors.
Ice wedging is when freezing water expands and what?
How do beavers change waterways?
Adult tunicates are barrel-shaped.
Water vapor bends the light.
what do coral polyps form?
Mutations Mutations are caused by random changes in genes.
Blood traveling to the heart is 
First the frog lays the eggs, then the warmth from the sun makes the eggs hatch into baby tadpoles.
What creates metamorphic rock?
Because of the big wave action, the rocks are very smooth.
Freezing water expands with tremendous force.
When a rock undergoes erosion and weathering, it breaks down to form sediments.
If the oxygen supply to the brain is cut off, a stroke can occur.
Geoffrey stops to hit a gong in different places, testing the concept of resonance.
what uses pheromones to communicate with each other?
What is it called when an animal divides into two parts?
During drought, water supply reduced.
What should you do for cold weather?
During what time frame do deciduous trees' leaves change color?
Hitting a rock causes what?
Vesicle transport is a form of _.
What can people die without?
Habitat destruction is a major threat to wildfowl.
Ethanol qualifies as an alternative fuel.
Ice freezing from a liquid to a solid does what to heat?
Tapeworms are internal parasites of vertebrates.
What is essential for cellular respiration for organisms consuming VOAs and alcohols?
what does bacteria cause?
what cause the amount that lakes contain to increase
Cucumber fruit are produced only when insects carry pollen to the female flower.
Antibodies kill bacteria.
Plants reproduce both sexually and asexually.
NUTRIENTS To function, the human body must have nutrients.
what is in limestone?
Papaya trees grow in the direct sunlight.
Cold fronts can give birth to what?
Plants have to have nitrogen to grow.
having food has a positive impact on an organism 's health
Boiling is the conversion of a liquid to a gas.
A greenhouse can protect plants from what?
Elastics are rubber bands that connect the upper and lower braces.
what do stems grow towards?
Every job has meaning and purpose.
Ants and butterflies are insects.
prokaryotes and Bacteria move by what 
What can nerve endings feel?
vein deposits of gold and silver are formed by igneous intrusion
Arthropods are the largest phylum of invertebrates.
Less garbage goes into landfills.
Meningitis can be caused by what?
Burning coal worsens
And that sand is available to redeposit on the beaches.
What does the pancreas help cells take up from the blood?
Phages, or bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria.
What has a complex nervous system?
Organisms rely on a relatively narrow range of what?
what requires metal or aluminum for electricity?
Hair has turned auburn red.
Habitat destruction is the primary cause of extinction or threat of extinction for all animals.
Tobacco smoke consists of solid particles and gases.
Wetlands Wetlands are also called swamps or marshes.
Straight feathers are dominant to curly feathers .
What are bounces off of mirrors?
Sperm had to swim from what to what reproductive organs for zygotes to occur.
Plasma, the fourth state of matter, can be created on earth by supplying sufficient heat.
Paper is formed by the chemical bonding of fibers.
What kind of bodies do earthworms have?
what lack a centralized nervous system?
The origin of P-waves and S-waves can be traced back to what?
What makes something that helps cells take up glucose from the blood?
Bees are essential for crop pollination.
Some viral infections live in what?
Mutation creates new genetic variation in what?
what can be used for separation a solute from a solvent in a solution?
What does magma form?
Less oxygen for the mother means less oxygen for the baby.
Meiosis is the type of _ that produces ova and spermatozoa.
Where does the lava come from that makes igneous rocks?
Digestive enzymes are necessary for a complete digestion.
Heat is also produced by friction, or mechanical energy, chemical energy, and electrical energy.
The female platypus and echindna does not have a vagina and?
Copulation starts early in the mating season and usually stops when nesting begins.
What involves oxygen?
When do most plants grow?
Well, platypuses are mammals, and they lay eggs.
Some plants can be reproduced using seeds, or even a piece of plant.
Starfish use _  to communicate with each other.
What can reducing heat energy to do an item?
Economic migration affects the population size.
Here the coal is burned to produce electricity.
How do some insects communicate?
What occurs in organelles that are found in the cells of plants and algae?
Bees are effective pollinators.
Volcanic eruptions are predictable.
When the metal aluminum is mentioned, most people think of things like foil and soda cans.
What organism's instruments of flight are part of the exoskeleton and attached to the thorax?
Most pituitary hormones control other endocrine glands.
Animals are _ things.
Lions live in Africa.
What might cause a flood to occur
A switch is used to start the flow of current in a path of
Reef-building corals are hermatypic.
Corals, and invertebrates in general, are delicate creatures.
What can rain do to rocks?
What protects a bear from the cold?
Samples are segregated by mission in separate gloveboxes.
what will plants die without?
What turns from a liquid into a solid?
What kind of worm belongs to the phylum Platyhelminthes?
what do creeks deposit in plains?
Decreased stamina or stunted growth are two important signs that a murmur is significant.
what do most lawn mowers convert into motion?
What is used to see in the dark?
All wood is either pine or oak.
Alternation of generations always includes a sexual phase alternating with an asexual phase.
What comes from lifting heavy weights?
What side of an insect are wings attached to?
Saliva starts to break down the food.
Fruit is delicious and very sweet.
What effect has the existence of humans had on the environment?
If no radiation energy is absorbed, no damage is done.
Bacteria in soil convert atmospheric nitrogen into a form usable by what?
What have special structures for penetrating a host?
heavy rain can cause that which is what?
what does coal release?
What attracts pollinators to the flower?
Relaxation promotes relaxation and easing of tension.
The most primitive multi-cellular animals produce what?
What does pollen consist of tiny grains of?
Poultry is a notorious source of bacteria that cause illness.
Annelids include earthworms and leeches.
What is used to heat a building by a heating system?
What results in light stimulating the retina?
What are multicellular eukaryotes with cell walls made of cellulose?
Car crashes are the leading cause of death for children from birth to age 21.
Incineration releases pollutants into the air.
Lipid stores are used by plants and animals for what?
Decomposers decay dead organisms or their wastes.
Fossil fuels are a finite resource.
Temperatures are moderate in summer and COLD in winter.
Where is the name of a habitat where a variety of ocean organisms often seek food and shelter?
Invertebrates are the majority of the animal kingdom.
DNA is typically found in this state:
what requires fossil fuels for operation?
Electrical power including lights etc can then be switched on.
What gets organic compounds from dead organisms?
Warm chain is the key to newborn survival.
Metal expands when it does what?
What can be done to a solid by adding heat energy?
Deepening rivers cause
Hot flashes are the classic sign of menopause and peri-menopause.
How does a windmill make wind energy?
What requires energy to produce light?
What does a pregnanct woman pass on to the fetus?
Hormones are produced and released by the endocrine system .
A small number of unscrupulous whale watching companies were also taking their clients too close to the animals and causing disturbance.
An abscess is an infected area swollen with pus.
Floods occur mostly in the spring from snowmelt runoff.
Snow leopards coats have thick, dense fur.
Summer is a hot, wet season.
what are a transportation technology
Most plants have what that that go down into the soil to soak up water and minerals?
what happens when water vapor condenses over night?
Each human body is unique.
what do behaviors that improve fitness increase through?
What do dogs use to mark their territory?
What can cause an object to remain stationary?
An electric current is a flow of electric charge.
Objects to be viewed are illuminated by electrons in an electron microscope.
Sharks are a type of fish.
Periscopes are still useful, despite the sonar and electronic sensors of modern submarines.
What with the vanes rotating causes air here to move?
What can cause cool objects to warm up?
What does a plant need to grow?
being burried under soil and mud changes vegetation into peat through extreme heat and pressure in a swamp over a long period of time
the ultimate aquatic organism has a circulatory system with a how many chambered heart.?
Behaviors can be learned through play.
What is required for the ideal habitat for new stands of cottonwood?
Winter has short daylight hours and summer has short night hours.
An informed consumer is a healthy consumer.
What does the digestive system break into nutrients for the body?
Effective insulation is the way to keep the warm air warm.
Cells vary in size as well as shape, but all cells are very small.
homeless cells grow how?
What causes H20 to expand when frozen?
What are parts of the ecosystem?
A long tail can be used to do what?
The body measures sensor input to the skin such as what?
what might cells that divide uncontrollably need?
Jet fuels are carcinogens.
Population density is the average number of individuals per unit of area or volume.
Gasses from burning coal can lead to what?
Salt in the water is something that must be adapted to by organisms who live in:
What do guitars make sound with?
Most genes contain the instructions for a single protein.
What causes the amount of attraction exerted by an object?
What is when solids are heated and ions move freely?
Insects also have both a heart and a respiratory, or breathing, system.
Frogs are examples of vertebrates.
What is required to burn a building?
what do camels hoard to survive?
What occurs over geologic time above the level of the species.
What can irradiation do?
Light is a part of the electromagnetic spectrum.
Contact with infected blood, contaminated needles.
What leads to immunity and extremely rarely with serious side effects?
How do dogs conserve body heat?
Tides are cyclical and closely follow the phases of the moon.
Light rays come in through the lens.
What transports millions of humans over water every year?
All seed plants have roots, a stem, and leaves.
If a plant requires less water then that plant will survive from a lack of
Oil is formed when sediment layers push on what sort of algae?
what kind of genes can be inherited?
what increases as speed increases?
Electric generators convert mechanical energy into electric energy.
Cell death is natural.
beets tolerate how much water expansion
The best place to locate a septic system is
What comes out the end of the penis?
what are amphibians classified by?
Salt is produced by the evaporation of sea water.
Fast flowing rivers tend to pick up more pebbles, sand and other materials that cause erosion.
Terrestrial arthropods have an excretory system that conserves water and eliminates waste.
Refraction is the bending of light.
What do windmills use to convert energy?
Cactuses are one type of succulent plants, although they are usually referred to separately.
what does substances reacting with one another cause?
Loggers have been careless in where they cut down trees.
What can shells protect?
The mature form of what kind of cell secretes antibodies?
What is necessary for growth?
After an episode of chickenpox, the virus becomes dormant in the body.
Alligators are cold-blooded animals.
Carbon cycles quickly between organisms and the atmosphere.
Eukaryotes move much faster than prokaryotes.
Grasses are also important food for waterfowl.
behaviors increase through what that improve traits of animal's ability to survive
what can move through water?
When do moose begin behavior intended to attract a mate?
Lengths A length is a measure of distance.
Which requires sunlight for photosynthesis?
A protective what protects the body from harmful substances?
what can hepatitis b form?
what are the results when a population suddenly gets much smaller?
Loss of sight means the total, permanent loss of sight of the eye.
Sediment, and sedimentary rock, is made of particles broken down from other rocks.
Indiana forests are complex ecosystems.
Heat transfer always occurs from warm to cool.
How are cells that divide uncontrollably classified
an emotionally devastating disease occurs when the cell cycle is what?
what is a laser used for producing?
What changes from gas in the air to liquid by reducing heat energy?
what can occur when cells divide more often than normal cells and grow out of control
The efficiency of an engine range is due to what?
What grow in length and girth caused by meristems?
Endocrine cells secrete hormones.
What is used for moving people across bodies of water?
he flow of heat into the system causes what?
What is sometimes used for heating buildings?
Touch is the ability to sense what?
What largest organ can cause sickness? 
what can loud noises cause animals to do?
Which animal has a backbone?
What is the ability to see images via the eye?
Humans are unable to see clearly in the dark.
Helpful Generalizations Vapors and gases are molecules.
What are molecules that are recognized by the body as alien?
a ruler is used for measuring the length of an object
Many hormones are proteins .
Global wind patterns are driven by 
Thermal fatigue cracking is notably different than thermal expansion damage.
Since fish feed on phytoplankton, they are drawn to phytoplankton-rich waters.
what have many organelles?
What have increased over the last decade dramatically
For example, Make sure there is enough light in the room to see clearly.
Coyotes classified as fur-bearing mammals.
Cells cannot live without what commonly occuring element found on Earth?
Where do colonies of coral form?
Conductive heat transfer is excellent.
What are lasers?
When a cooler object touches a warmer object, conductivity varies with what?
What are one celled organisms?
Alternation of generations allows for both asexual and sexual reproduction.
A possible outcome of scraping oneself on a contaminated object?
Heat energy is the amount of energy in a substance.
What does gong's particles vibrating cause?
A mutation in which type of cell can cause a new trait to appear in a parent 's offspring
Fur is a fiber that is found only on what kind of animal?
What does an egg require to survive?
Flirting, the first step in the courtship ritual, is essential to modern relationships.
What can change stuff to liquid?
Plants use sunlight for photosynthesis.
Soil comes largely from weathering of rocks and erosion.
If an object is at rest, a force is needed to make it move.
Where do rays enter the eye?
Hiccups are caused by involuntary spasms of the diaphragm, the muscle beneath the lungs.
Bats have good eyesight and rely on vision for long-distance orientation.
Girls have played with dolls for generations.
What does gravity's pull determine about an object?
Choices include Yahoo Weather, CNN Weather, Rain or Shine and The Weather Channel.
Which can have a positive impact on plants?
Petroleum is a fossil fuel .
Electrical energy refers to energy associated with the flow of electrons.
what makes sand formations?
Air mass movements are also influenced by mountain barriers.
Survival is a natural reaction known as staying alive.
What attracts bees?
Now seeds are the products of successful sexual reproduction.
Sea urchins are echinoderms, in the same family as starfish.
Eyes and skin are the critical organs.
A switch is used to start the flow of current in what?
What can make lungs more at risk for infection by streptococcus?
How can we figure out how long a dinosaur has been dead?
Refrigerator is too cold.
radioactive dating is used to determine the relative age of what?
Harmful emissions from cars are largely responsible for the giant holes in the ozone layer.
For example, geese are a species and ducks are a species.
Gravitational mass and inertial mass are identical.
Flooding is the most common natural disaster.
One tumor suppressor protein which often results in cancer when it stops functioning is:
Everyone can get sick from resistant bacteria.
For the nonrenewable resources, depletion means extraction of the available natural resources.
The addition of salt increases the density of water.
Ships are used to do what on oceans?
What causes thermal expansion?
landfills have a negative impact on what
Deuterium, or heavy hydrogen, is an isotope of hydrogen, or a hydrogen atom with a neutron added.
what requires warmth for survival?
what are used for reflecting light?
Becuse of that, the fat layer was needed to keep warm, now that the fur coat was removed.
Daylight, sunlight, is necessary to it.
Some children drive their parents to distraction.
What do earthworms ingest in order to form and enrich soil?
Muscles are bundles of fibers that can contract.
Gravity is the pulling force that holds objects to the surface of a planet.
What lacks walls and membranes?
DNA messages to proteins are manufactured by what?
Acids and bases are a part of everyday life.
Hurricanes can cause severe damage.
Iron oxides are produced that are red, orange, or brown in color.
Cold fronts, rain, wind and rough weather often precipitate the hot bite during the fall.
What animal can help lakes to form?
Survival is to live, to live means hope.
What are vascular plants that produce seeds in cones?
cells cannot survive without plants replenishing the what
Cells that divide uncontrollably may form an irregular what?
Roundworms make up the roundworm phylum, Nematoda.
Changing weather effects and daylight times.
What often requires bees?
What does condensation cause?
What can mosquitoes spread?
Treatments are available for many immunodeficiencies.
What can heavy rain do?
The microscopic building blocks of coral reefs are
what do some parasites do to their hosts?
What can overexposure to vibrating matter cause?
which of the following gases does an animal need to survive?
Honey bees are perennial insects with colonies that survive more than one year.
Sunlight can be converted to electricity.
Salt water is more buoyant.
Animals hibernate or relocate to avoid harsh conditions.
If erosion is rapid, no high mountain range or extensive foreland thrust develops.
What does sharpening an item do?
Lakes can increase due to
Guns are loud, folks, and the sound is painful.
Viruses often infect something killed by what?
What is mutation essential for?
An animal's habitat is where it lives.
Electric lamps produce light by means of electric energy.
if fossils of an animal or plant are found in a place then that animal or plant used to live in that place
A reef is made of
What is formed when light hits water and refracts in different wavelengths?
Global warming affects wildlife .
Acid urine is usually darker thatn alkaline urine.
Marble is considered a carbonate rock .
What field studies how animals behave in their habitats? 
What can be water vapor condensing in air be a hindrance to?
What lasts only as long as the proteins that attach to an antigen survive in body fluids?
What can make milk undrinkable?
Animals eat the seeds and their stomach acids weaken the seed coat.
where are bacteria that form resistant cells usually seen?
Blood pH may become unbalanced if the rate of breathing is too fast or too slow.
What does the Euphrates form?
What can be part of invading a host?
What is less complex in smaller, simple cells?
What do coral reefs provide for humans?
a measuring cup is used for measuring the what?
what is ozone made of?
Sulfur is a good electrical insulator.
What is used to measure the base unit of the metric system which is the meter?
Distance Finder Find the distance between two places.
Touch receptors are a type of mechanoreceptor.
what relationship does pollination have towards pollinators?
Moisture is required for the microorganisms to grow.
What can use photosynthesis?
Where do some plants store water?
Animals may leave an environment during which event?
What does perspiration do?
Bivalves feed on plankton and nonliving organic matter.
low amounts of rainfall intensify damage during what?
Refracted light can be deceptive.
Lots of gas bubbles burst over the boiling lakes' surface.
Many animals use sponges for shelter.
Animals with fur can also help trees disperse their seeds.
What process creates sand?
Where are the remains of animals found?
Chlorine is a type of Green Cross gas.
What can be maintained when individuals move into or out of a population?
What causes limestone to smooth?
natural disasters can cause animals to leave an environment
Heat energy from the sun is stored in the earth.
What does a peachleaf willow do in the autumn?
Color is the same as wavelength .
After stumbling around in the dark tunnels of the basement, Marco finds the control room.
Building insulation is a cellulose material made of ground computer paper and cardboard boxes.
Contrails are made by high-flying jet airplanes.
Immunodeficiency occurs when the immune system is what?
Among the desert biomes, there are different kinds.
Beech woods are without doubt a very rich habitat for fungi.
Burrows are constructed in soft soil.
Ultraviolet radiation damages the eye's lens and retina.
Leaves lack what?
All thunderstorms produce lightning.
Cilia are short flagella.
Where do orchids keep water?
Winter is a special season.
What sort of impact does deforestation in the rainforest have?
Phases of the moon, however, depend on the relative positions of the Earth, moon, and Sun.
Heterotrophs get organic molecules from other organisms.
Thyroxine, a thyroid hormone, is an aryl iodide.
If feeding is severe, particularly under drought conditions, the tips of leaves become brown.
For instance, in the forest, plants use sunlight and soil nutrients to grow.
Enzymes are catalysts and accordingly, speed up reactions by decreasing the activation energy.
The transport of what requires energy?
Pollen grains contain the male gametes in sexually reproducing plants.
Heat energy is released as the water vapor in the air condenses.
Babies are frightened by loud noises.
what contains DNA?
What can cause animals to startle?
What are burned to produce electricity?
Weathering means eroding rocks down into what pieces of minerals?
have a circulatory system with one or two hearts
liquid precipitation causes what?
Invertebrates make up the majority of the animal Kingdome.
Chlorofluorocarbons are greenhouse gases.
What shape are the things that develop from spores?
An electrical switch directs current to one of several wires.
what effect does alcoholic fermentation of the glucose in corn or other plants have?
what will move to another area if their habitat will no longer support them?
What is one instinct that animals use to stay alive?
What can fire be used to do to an egg?
Asexual reproduction is by sporangia or conidia.
what can you use to generate power to reduce greenhouse gases?
Tree age, scion, nutrition and other factors that affect the overall health of the tree could affect rootstock resistance or susceptibility to Phytophthora.
What do thresher sharks move through?
Cross-pollination increases something required by what?
Solidification , or freezing, occurs when a liquid turns into a solid.
Mammals include rabbits, foxes and coyotes.
Just as darkness is the absence of light.
what kind of digestive tracks do nematoda have?
Using a gasoline engine requires doing what to gasoline?
What happens when oxygenated blood doesn't reach the brain?
What type of life cycles do plants have?
Amphibians have a relatively complex circulatory system with a three-chambered heart.
Water in the lakes is fresh, cool and transparent.
a cactus stem is used for storing water
Soil or dirt is typically high in silica and alumina.
What do rain forests reduce?
What can help prevent hypothermia?
What undergoes alternation of generations?
if two balanced forces act on an object in opposite directions then that object will remain stationary
What do mammals use eyes for?
Mitosis is a process by which cells divide.
What are canyons formed by?
Marine biology is the study of organisms that happen to be marine.
Proteins and polynucleotides are thermodynamically unstable.
Adaptation traits contribute to individual fitness and to the evolution of animal genetic resources.
Carnivores are consumers which eat animals or other consumers.
What can be major producers in terrestrial biomes?
Sex chromosomes determine gender.
Another group of echinoderms are the echinoids.
Alleles arise by mutation.
viruses are so small that they can be seen only with a device developed where?
What if 2 are crossed with recessive traits causes their offspring to have that recessive trait?
What's more, paper bags are recyclable themselves.
Mutations are changes in the DNA sequence.
Most of the earth's water is liquid.
what might leave an environment to find food and water if those things decrease?
Life-long learning is no longer a luxury for the few, but a survival skill for all.
what has vibrating movement
what is caused by flooding?
what do animals use for energy?
Barking is a dog's way of communicating.
what feeds at more than one trophic level?
Automobile engines have a range where they are most efficient.
What can be caused by rain?
Marine animals find these to be a great source of food:
Natural Toxins Toxins are poisonous substances from bacterias, plants or animals.
If the egg is fertilized, the complex process of reproduction continues.
Air conducts heat poorly.
the average number of individuals per unit of area or what can vary considerably?
Arthropods contain jointed appendages.
What do earthworms help grow?
Hormones travel in the bloodstream to cells that are called target cells a.
What can achieve new genetic variation in its gene pool?
what can animal scent be used for?
the Earth being tilted on its rotating axis causes seasons
Molecules expand with heat and contract with cold.
Bears are proportionally weighted on a balance for discovering what?
What is a dog's sound?
what can cause bearings to heat up?
And since infrared energy is heat, it warms the Earth.
bacteria have no membrane-bound organelles and lack what?
What are ships used for?
what are chemical messengers that control many body functions?
plant requires seed dispersal for reproduction
Apoptosis is programed cell death.
Similarly, stars are referred to as suns, but our star is the Sun.
People means human beings.
Pelts are the skins of animals with the fur attached.
Mammals can also generate little bursts of heat by what?
What can help form and enrich soil?
Soy protein is a complete protein.
Bright colors reflect visible light.
Plant and animal life cycles are detailed, including birth, growth, reproduction, and death.
A light bulb uses what when it converts electrical energy?
Osteogenic cell types are indicated.
Biodiversity is basically genetic diversity.
What can large waterways be divided into?
Natural disasters can cause 
Glucose, the sugar the body uses for fuel, is stored as glycogen.
The dam also generates electricity.
When many muscles contract a little bit, simultaenous, it produces:
Echinoderms are represented by the starfish.
Photosynthesis is the chief function of leaves.
How many types can viruses infect?
what have bodies that are segmented?
Blue Mold Blue mold is caused by a fungus spread by wind-borne spores.
What can infect bacteria?
where are genetic traits passed to?
Chemical bonds vibrate.
Autotrophs are referred to as producers.
Dew is formed when _ occurs over night
What requires hiding and sleeping for survival?
Birds are vertebrate endotherms with what?
Which food is most unlikely to cause an illness if eaten?
Behaviors that improve fitness increase through natural selection.
Bees are necessary for pollination.
Aerobic activities are exercises that cause deep breathing and a fast heart rate.
what have specialized reproductive organs?
What do microbial fuel cells transform hydrogen into?
Emphysema is often cause by exposure to:
Why do pipes sometimes burst during the winter
What is formed by water vapor condensing in the air?
What causes an object to slow down?
a warm front causes cloudy and rainy weather
What helps a fire continue to burn?
What is a tree with a woody trunk?
What part of a car easily changes shape from smooth to compacted by physical force?
soil is formed by weathering
what happens when mitosis stops?
Glutamate transport requires what?
Light grains are quartz, Black grains are coal.
the basic necessity of an ecosystem enters in the form of what?
Power involves electrical energy.
Major rivers include the Severn, Thames and Trent.
what creatures lack respiratory and excretory systems?
what does a solar panel convert sunlight into?
Rivers flow in the wilderness.
what are vein deposits of gold and silver formed by?
What does a doorbell convert electrical energy into?
what do some touch receptors sense differences in?
Most invertebrates have brains capable of what?
What is plant's tendency to grow toward the sun called?
sediment is formed by weathering
What is formed by deposition of sediment at the mouth of a water supply fanning out?
Seasons on the earth are due to the tilt of the earth's axis.
And to the east is the Atlantic Ocean.
What can you add to a solid to lower its freezing point?
Plucking a string can cause that string to make what?
what kind of cells are abnormal?
Different kinds of animals have different habitat requirements.
What gets converted into the type of energy that animal cells need?
a rainbow is formed by what into all different colors?
Appearance nodes affect an object's appearance, such as color, material properties, or texture maps.
Wind is produced as the sun heats the air.
Another function of TSH is to maintain the structural integrity of the thyroid gland.
What do high pressure systems allow?
Mammals have a diaphragm to aid in respiration.
Iguanas are a lot like dogs, people and other living things.
What do herbaceous plants supply the world with?
certain Steel products have a positive impact on what
Earthquakes cause massive damage.
Genes are inherited from parents.
What are the structural and functional units of the organ that filters blood?
Then, the lowest energy offspring are used as parents for the next generation.
What ocean organisms feed on phytoplankton?
what gets contracted when fibers get shorter?
Birds also have four-chambered hearts.
Organic foods contain no chemicals, preservatives, or artificial colorings.
Learning and behavior are nervous system functions.
Water is made up of H2O molecules.
What stays the same when an item is made of a material?
Over time, the slow processes of weathering and erosion can turn large rocks into sand.
Proteins and nitrate are nitrogenous compounds.
What engages in courtship?
Prokaryotes are smaller and simpler than eukaryotes.
Toyota car is truly the car for the present and the future.
What does uneven warming of the Earth's surfaces cause?
What is an example of an animal that lacks a respiratory and excretory system?
Stars that have mass larger than 25 solar masses can form what?
What are not cells at all, so they are neither prokaryotes nor eukaryotes?
Are there organisms simpler than cells.
Another menopause discomfort is vaginal dryness.
Furry animals grow thicker coats to keep warm in the winter.
Fire needs fuel to burn.
Whatever the season wet weather and cold weather clothing is essential.
Hormones tell what to produce eggs?
freezing means changing from a liquid into a solid by reducing heat energy
Ascothoracican barnacles attach to echinoderms or corals.
What influences the survival chances of bees?
A characteristic that are encoded in DNA
pollutants have a negative impact on the environment
Winds are calm and skies are clear or partly cloudy when the eye of a storm passes.
What can secrete an exoskeleton that builds up to become a reef?
Energy and carbon in organic compounds passed through food chain to herbivores and carnivores.
Leaf cells produce sugar by photosynthesis.
B lymphocytes produce antibodies .
Factors in Body Fluid Health Potassium and sodium are crucial to the body's fluid balance.
Most species are highly specialized for their environments and evolve as the environments change.
What results when an immune response to a pathogen produces memory cells?
When living things die, they quickly begin to decay.
What word can describe something formed by weathering?
What with the outside world can cause people to become distracted?
Speed is the magnitude of velocity.
Hypothermia Loss of body heat caused by exposure is called Hypothermia.
A cactus stem is used for storing what?
Something that can cause many human diseases can be what?
Air pollution Air pollution is a major threat to health.
what converts wind energy into electricity
What does using a car lead to?
What can be used for keeping aerosols from entering the respiratory system?
A flashlight needs electricity to produce what?
Bears are powerful animals.
The beavers live on this side, and create dams.
Tunicates are sea creatures encased by tough membranes, reminiscent of tunics.
Most waves are formed from the force of wind against the water.
Bird A bird is an animal with feathers.
All movement is exercise.
Alcohol interferes with the central nervous system.
What does not require cutting down oaks?
Which of the following can cause a living thing to die?
Cells divide only a set number of times then experience what?
Freezing causes what to form?
How is limestone formed?
Combustion requires oxygen to burn.
Some insects can use their antennae to detect
what is natural?
The mass of an object causes force exerted by the object which can be described as
Vision is out the eyes.
what do arteries carry?
Dilation makes the eye very sensitive to sunlight.
Which activity usually requires using a non-renewable resource?
What cycle quickly between organisms and the atmosphere?
What can snapping a rubber band cause?
weathering means breaking down rocks from larger whole into smaller pieces by weather
cycles of freezing and thawing water cause ice wedging
what does a renewable, economical source of electricity require?
Wells are usually used as a source for groundwater.
By definition, menopause occurs when menstruation stops permanently.
Humans are animals too.
what is unique to mammals?
Of course, pianos and other instruments produce damped, forced vibrations.
DNA and RNA RNA and DNA are polymers of nucleotides.
 _can cause inflammation
What uses saturated fatty acids to store energy?
Lanterns and flashlights are sources of light used for camping.
What can be used to separate a solute from a solvent?
What contains energy to raise the temperture of an office?
What prevents cold food from growing poisonous bacteria?
What can cause animals to leave their homes?
Gametes, the sperm and eggs, are produced by mitosis in the haploid gametophyte.
what do seasons cause change to?
When an atom or molecule is no longer neutral it is called an ion .
Flower size varies by plant.
something available in the where causes particles in itself to vibrate when snapping?
Toasters can get energy from what?
Hair is built by the hair follicle from dead proteins produced by skin cells called keratin.
Vitamins function as catalysts in chemical reactions in the body.
For example, epilepsy and splay leg tend to link with the vienna white gene.
When it rains in the mountains where would the rain fall?
plasma is formed by electrons separating from atoms in stars
Sometimes, in a cold climate it is necessary to use heat, but use only slow heat.
Evidence of prehistoric life includes many dinosaur footprints found in coal mines.
Killer whales prefer shallow and colder coastal waters.
Fertilisation is a key feature of sexual reproduction.
What does operating an automobile usually require?
Oil provides heating for warmth and gasoline for transportation.
nuclear reactions in stars causes stars to produce light
What does the movement of soil by water cause?
Excessive speed is dangerous.
Coyotes maintain their territory by marking it with urine.
Genes are the basic unit of heredity.
Along with gold and silver, they are known as precious or noble metals.
Seismometers measure earthquakes.
Where can cells bound by antibodies more likely be found?
The infrared spectrum is not absorbed by what objects?
what falls from the equator to the poles?
Bacteria and fungi are involved in the decomposition.
Mutations are what to evolution?
Cell walls relax and increase the flow of what?
Arctic animals are assisted in survival by what?
A force that pulls on things pulls objects towards what?
Much of the landscape is scarred by severe soil erosion.
Gas is one of the 3 states of matter.
Fruit eating bats can find their food by the smell of the ripening fruit.
Tires are electrical insulators.
What two things turn fossils to natural gas?
What direction does something that has oxygen-rich blood go?
what do lawns eat?
Blood is transported through our veins.
First, limestone is a strong rock.
Sponges are the most primitive multicellular animals.
Headings include Materials Research, Materials, Ceramic Materials, Composite Materials.
what will creatures do if humans disturb them?
All life relies on a relatively narrow range of pH, or acidity.
An organism may die if an organism does what?
electricity sometimes is used for heating buildings
Common deciduous trees are the oak, elm and beech.
Water includes all liquids.
What can't light do when hitting a mirror?
What is used to detect texture?
Weather Clear weather usually means good visibility.
Like the retina of the eye, the intense light of the Sun can burn the imager damaging the camcorder.
All elms are trees.
Adding sulfur to soil can cause what?
What behavior do plants exhibit that makes them grow towards the sun?
Inside the body, blood is normally a fluid.
To preserve a food by salting.
Solid refined coal is easy to transport and can be used in coal-burning equipment.
Some birds fly and some birds swim, but all birds have feathers.
After the mating of gametes, zygots are formed.
What is the term used for an individual who is learning ethology?
What does not change during melting?
What are encoded in DNA and called genetic traits?
What is formed when a sperm and egg unite in fertilization?
Tunicates, or sea squirts, are marine organisms covered with a gelatinous tunic.
What occurs when muscles contract and propel male gametes?
How do polar bears stay warm in the winter?
what is measured in inches?
gases from burning coal and oil dissolving in water in the atmosphere causes acid rain
What allows soil to convert atmospheric nitrogen into a usable form by plants?
Sedimentary rock changes into a different form when it undergoes heat, pressure or other forces.
What can make the bottleneck effect occur in fish?
Adding salt to a liquid changes what aspect of the liquid?
what consists of organic molecules that store energy from the sunlight
Springs can be fed by what?
Light comes from the sun.
What can most people survive only a few days without doing?
What is a fiber found only in mammals?
Genetic memory is inherited.
Where does organism development start?
what uses sweat to adjust to hot temperatures?
Absorbing what causes cars to heat?
Using cell phones while driving can cause what?
What animal increases plants genetic diversity?
Polar bears grow fur to survive in the cold.
What do mirrors do?
What causes metal to heat?
Which of the following may cause infection?
what requires sunlight to grow?
Where do rainbows rarely appear?
Plants have flowers for what?
How are atolls built?
Frogs belong to the Class Amphibia, and rely on moisture to breathe, reproduce and survive.
 have sense organs to smell and taste chemicals
Plant reproduction often requires nectar and what?
changing from a liquid into a solid by reducing heat energy what?
the Himalayas were formed by rock folding
Some animals hide underground.
What can cause illness?
Daisy leaves and white petals are used in salads.
Where do igneous rocks come from?
Bats are mammals that fly.
What is usually harmful to the population size of a species?
A parasites that can kill is called what?
After urination, dry the end of the penis and replace the foreskin.
Mammals Hair or fur covers the bodies of most mammals.
What infects and destroys helper T cells?
What can be added to a liquid to decrease the melting point of the liquid?
Oxygen deprivation in cells result in what?
What may be formed in stars?
Eggs, cooked in their shell, can explode, causing second degree burns.
Thick and white animal coats are what?
For example, beef is a functional food.
a coating does what to the transfer of electricity 
What does a solar panel in sunlight provide?
Erosion alters the constituents carried by water.
What happens when the season changes?
Weather and seasons Seasonal changes and weather affect all plants and animals.
Erosion affects farm viability.
What usually studies how animals behave in their natural environment?
During hibernation, they use their stored energy very slowly.
Standard knife blade material is heat treated stainless steel.
Dogs like to play fetch.
what needs oxygen for cellular respiration?
Metal expands when heated.
what requires water?
Nocturnal animals' eyes are very sensitive and used for what?
Carpooling does what to the amount of cars and traffic congestion?
Some touch receptors sense a difference in pain or what?
what does testosterone stimulate reproductive tissues to develop?
Windmills tap into the energy of the wind using sails or vanes.
What can changes in soil pH do?
Water is the best fluid for hydration.
Heat is added and the temperature of the water increases.
If something is a bird, can fly, and has a hooked beak, it is an eagle.
Energy requirements Energy is required for both growth and maintenance.
the young of monotremes are 
TRH synthesis is regulated directly by thyroid hormones.
Dilation occurs when cell walls relax.
What causes friction?
Second, the environment is important to health.
Cancer is an abnormal growth of cells.
By contrast, climate is the average course of the weather at a place over a period of years.
What is the rate of water flow of soil?
What studies how animals behave in their natural environment?
_ is found in most molecules.
Which needs fungi need to survive?
What body part would be attached to the external framework?
Stems are positively phototropic.
Fireworks that only make a loud noise are called firecrackers.
Good health and enough rest are important.
When the body is hot, what cools the body?
transpiration is when water vapor moves from plants into the atmosphere
How is bread cooked with heat energy?
smell is used for finding food by some animals
hloroplasts are organelles that are found in the cells of what?
After hours of no glucose ingestion, fats and proteins can be used for energy.
A platypus is an example of _.
Cook potatoes, cook the kale.
Paper Media products are printed on paper.
Influenza viruses are restless.
Bacteria are very small.
The city bus is used for moving what?
What is one way dogs learn to behave?
what are basal bodies involved in?
Exercise can help change that by moving their glucose into their muscles.
unequal heating of Earth 's surface by the Sun causes Large cyclonic systems where
Oil is less dense than water.
Earthworm burrows help aerate soil, which is essential for what?
Wind is air that is moving.
Land Animals Land animals have four limbs.
Oxygen is just one substance transported by the blood.
Leaves are the main sites of photosynthesis.
What causes sediment to form?
What do communities consist of populations of?
Sea lions are tactile mammals.
Veins of Gold ore most commonly occur in cracks and fissures in igneous rocks.
Heat sink materials are chosen for their high thermal conductivity.
What can reduce respiratory system capacity?
What can cause halos?
What produces secondary vascular tissues in seed plants?
Antlers are true bones and are composed of calcium and phosphorous.
When a person stops breathing, they die.
Earth 's tilt on its rotating axis causes fall to change to what?
If all members of a species cannot produce offspring, that species will be gone for how long?
How do squids reproduce?
Mitosis is cell division.
erosion of soil has a negative impact on the environment
What is the final stage of cell division in eukaryotes?
Sunlight is white light.
Erosion is the wearing away of earth or rock.
What happens to the body without oxygen?
And that energy is generated by burning fossil fuel.
Which rock is formed from magma cooling?
Some fish, like the clownfish, spend most of their lives in and around coral reefs.
Humans can be protected with
Every living being needs food.
Flowers Includes All Plant Species.
What does taking off one's clothing improve the efficacy of?
Petals are great for potpourri or for making rose petal jelly.
Much of protein transport in a cell occurs via coated transport vesicles.
using the standard genetic code, mRNA makes what?
All chordates are vertebrates.
Girls have used what to learn behaviors for generations?
And as the habitat disappears, so do the animals which depend upon it for survival.
Normally ice floats, because it is less dense than water.
Global warming is caused by carbon dioxide trapped in the atmosphere.
what does fault movement form?
a plant requires water to grow
Almost every body function is controlled by hormones released from the endocrine glands.
Insects and hummingbirds are required for what to reproduce?
Heterotrophic growth is slow and inefficient.
What causes heat in a wire?
DNA damage is a cause of mutations that can cause cancers.
Roundworm eggs are comparatively large.
Kids play hockey in the driveways.
what results in higher levels of uv radiation reaching the place birds and trees live?
blowing air into a whistle causes air to vibrate inside the whistle
Seals live in salt water.
children are also infected with the virus and what?
Less soil is lost to erosion.
What damages air sacs?
What forms when molecules react with one another?
What do green beans use for their cell wall?
a solution is formed by one substance being dissolved in another substance
What causes air pollution?
Raindrops refract light into rainbows.
Acceleration is the increase in speed or velocity over a period of time.
Life is Breath and Breath Healing.
Likewise, the caffeine and saccharose stimulate the body's stimulation of serotonin.
DNA causes what to inherit genetic traits?
What causes volcanic eruptions?
Water can flow easily through soil where what has formed and expanded?
what uses lipids to store energy
what uses cell division to grow and repair itself?
what causes lung cancer?
Wollies are made of fur and worn for warmth.
What does an object absorb from the sun?
What are all alligators?
Plants make their own food.
If an object  absorbs all photons then that object
if heat is conducted to an object then that object will become hot
Yeast and mushrooms are types of fungus.
Clothing reduces the effectiveness of sweating as a means of cooling the body.
Honeypot ants are classified in the genus Myrmecocystus.
hitting an object causes
What may soak into the ground, becoming groundwater?
a pesticide is used for protecting plants by killing insects
Weathering causes what to become deeper and wider?
Grasses are wheat and wild oats.
what can persist in the circulation for decades?
What causes food poisoning?
Severe droughts have caused much of the rural population to urbanize.
What could the last dodo birds not produce?
Where is the sea tiger found?
The fundamental units of life vary in size and shape but are all very what?
what being buried under mud changes peat into coal?
What does the gravitational pull of the Moon on Earth 's oceans cause?
Nerve damage that causes a reduction in the ability to feel touch or pain is very dangerous.
if a living thing becomes too cold then that living thing will die
What do animals require for survival?
What are chemical messengers that are catalysts in the body?
Bees are usually required for effective pollen transfer.
What is a producer in terrestrial biomes?
Islands are delicately balanced ecosystems.
Rivers can be divided into rivers and streams.
Precipitation occurs when what are formed?
if seeds stick to the fur of an animal then that seed will be transported by the animal
pollination is the fertilization step in something that is healthy when what?
Inside the nucleus are the genes.
What exemplify surviving in a dry environment?
Dehydration is the removal of water.
Eyes detect light, organized into images that fall on the retina.
Last, the final project is due.
Prokaryotes are single celled living things in the animal kingdom that don't have a what?
Coffee is an excellent source of caffeine.
Food is often moldy or spoiled .
radiation energy causes objects to what
What can be used to cook eggs?
If the soil is loose or wet, the entire plant is easily pulled.
If an object is what by a foot, then force is exerted on that object?
Rain causes what and sculpts landscapes?
What organ do you need to see light and create vision
When a soccer ball is kicked, it is compressed.
If heat is applied to metal the metal will become what?
Heating system is Gas.
What do nuclear reactions in stars cause?
Cancer genes can be inherited.
What increases survival?
what shares some of the same structures and basic functions?
some light bulbs convert electricity into light and the amount of what?
Weather refers to the circulation of the Earth's atmosphere.
To identify that liquid 's boiling point requries
What do amphibians lack?
Autosomal recessive is another pattern of inheritance of a genetic trait.
What causes halos?
what are adapted to very dry environments?
What from one species to another occurs over geologic time?
what can cause blood pH to become unbalanced?
All ducks have webbed feet.
What are terrific for plants?
When a sperm cell fertilizes an egg cell, a fertilized egg or zygote is formed.
What changes water into a gas by adding heat energy?
What does the earth being tilted on a rotating axis cause?
what are on when there is flow of current in an electrical circuit
how are regions that do not code for proteins removed?
Mushrooms and molds are fungi.
An organism can gain energy by assimilation or absorption of food.
What is the process of breaking down food into nutrients?
Melting is when something that is part of what is heated above its melting point?
Ozone depletion causes higher levels of which of the following? 
Contamination is the unintended presence of harmful substances or microorganisms in food.
Mammals are animals that are born with fur or hair.
Rivers cause erosion by transporting weathered rock and soil downstream.
The runaway greenhouse effect present on Venus makes what unlikely?
what does tobacco harm?
What does potassium do for plants?
First flowering plants appear.
Fire is a chemical reaction called combustion.
what is found in proteins?
what do tissues form?
Most of the bright objects are stars.
the surface of a beach is formed by what force?
Many warm-blooded animals control their body temperature by sweating or panting.
Frogs breathe through their skin, which is what?
What does salting food do to it?
Moisture is stored in the spongy stem or root systems of the cactus during rainfall.
Cars crash, people die, slow down.
Endocrine Glands Endocrine glands are the hormone producing structures of the body.
Population size influences the chances of a species surviving.
What will decrease when seasons change from summer to fall?
Most children know that the sun makes things grow and that the sun is very hot.
Growth and Development Most organisms grow.
Friendship usually precedes courtship, and courtship, marriage.
What happens when the water level rises?
Electricity can produce light and heat.
a black hole is formed by a what diameter star
What can be essential for fruit production?
Androgens control sexual development and reproduction in who?
All termites are social insects.
An antibody is a protein that attaches to an antigen.
Goats are herd animals.
What might animals use leaves for?
What do flowers require for reproduction?
Internal organs that can be affected include kidneys, lungs, heart and brain.
What is burned to move people across bodies of water?
What converts chemical energy into electrical energy?
Being exposed to what can cause erosion of dirt?
What can cause people to die?
what do viruses often infect?
Inside of the lungs are little sacks called alveoli.
Steam is water vapor produced by evaporation.
What is the basis for natural selection?
when the season changes , the amount of daylight will change
Chlorophyll is the plant's oxygen producer.
On the other hand, air is the element that fans the flames of fire.
If eroded the Nile would become what?
Producers are organisms, such as green plants, that convert light energy into food.
Eyes used for seeing ahead and balance.
Corrosion always increases with increasing temperature.
what senses differences in temperature or pain?
the movement of an air mass over Earth 's surface changes what?
Exercise Regular exercise is a sleep promoter.
An embryo is so small that it requires a microscope in order to be seen.
Dates are provided for the recognized eras and periods of geologic time.
Birds have a beak or a bill.
Leaves help carry on photosynthesis.
Most reptiles, are considered to be tetrapods, or 4 legged animals.
Reproduction is asexual by budding, or sexual.
Intensity , or loudness of sound, is measured in decibels .
What adapts to the temperatures of the Arctic?
What is the effect of a population suddenly getting much smaller?
What color are the coastal waters where bacteria and algae that use sunlight to make food?
Allergies are an immune system response.
What does melting not change? 
Acceleration of an object also increases its:
Lastly Fire, or light, is perceived through the sense of vision.
absorbing sunlight causes objects to heat
having food has a positive impact on what health?
What use may some animals have for their vocal chords?
Another obvious connection between the eye and the rest of the body is the vascular system.
Rocks interacting with what over time causes creation of soil and sand?
Athletes possess physical stamina.
Another major type of wind is called a polar easterly.
heating a liquid can be used to identify that liquid 's boiling point
Geoscientists are the caretakers of Earth's resources and environment.
What are beaks adapted to?
The sulfur dioxide is converted into sulfuric acid.
What are algae capable of?
what converts chemical energy into electrical energy
Second stage, learn how to behave assertively.
Sunlight and rain combine to form what?
Beef jerky is the perfect food.
When the body is hot, the skin accumulates what?
What does the organ of the eye sense?
Lake water visibly disturbed.
what contain a right hand double helix of polynucleotides but not much else
Seeds grow into new plants.
An oven, stove, and microwave are available to keep food warm or to heat it up.
What causes growth in organisms?
Helper T cells are the critical link in our immune system.
Gerontology is the study of the aging process and old age.
What effect could more active plate tectonics have on the earth?
Human beings live within the world's ecosystems.
What reads the genetic code in mRNA and give rise to emergent properties?
a measuring cup is used for measuring the volume of substances
otters need their what to keep warm
An object made with a material will the the texture, color and what of the material?
For example, the pituitary gland located at the base of the brain produces many hormones.
Unrestricted logging practices lead to erosion, landslides, and flooding.
Muscles in the upper arm called biceps are used to flex the arm.
What does biodiversity do towards the poles?
What does ice lose when it is made?
What are many chemical messengers that control body functions?
Insulation helps to block conduction of heat.
What is an example of an echinoderm?
air pollution can cause the pH of soil to decrease
Well, weight is the force on a object caused by gravity trying to pull the object down.
What kind of power stations create most of the electricity in the United States?
Flowers attract pollinators, and fruits encourage animals to disperse the seeds.
When the light waves strike a prism, the rays of light refract, or bend, at different angles.
How do wolves hunt?
Zooplankton are tiny animals that feed on phytoplankton.
Antibodies respond to antigens by latching on to, or binding with, the antigens.
what uses lungs to breathe air?
Different species such as what take up in the wetlands?
Torrential rain and high tides caused flooding in coastal areas and damaged beachfront homes.
Gas furnaces heat homes for up to 20 years.
What shares some of the same structures and basic functions?
What does plant reproduction often require?
Water conservation saves money and energy.
Foxes are monogomous and mate for life.
Fire converts fuel into what?
The pancreas is an organ that is part of our digestive system.
An image in a mirror reflects what?
What is created when fine particles press down on algae?
what does a diaphragm aid in?
Playing is just one of many ways that mammals and other animals learn how to behave.
What stimulates the reproductive system to form male organs in growth?
 the production of primordia cause roots to 
When p53 is mutated, cells divide uncontrollably.
Water behind a dam has potential energy that can be converted to kinetic energy.
What do biologists use to make bacteria appear bigger?
Amphibian skin lacks hair or scales.
What shape are sea squirts?
What process increases behaviors that improve fitness?
What is the process of breaking down food proteins into energy or heat?
What is associated with aging?
What are buses often used for?
What joins rivers?
What is the average number of individuals per unit of area or volume?
Ozone is harmful to humans and crops.
Playing is one of many ways animal improve ability to what
Animals communicate through what?
What does lymphoma do to cells?
Plants that shed their leaves seasonally each year are called deciduous plants.
Solid materials used to produce electricity by burning in what need to be transported firs
Lubricating reduces the friction and prevents heat damage to the mono.
What is required so that chemical energy may be converted to light energy?
Viruses are usually considered to be what?
Overexposure to sound can damage hearing.
Which type of hair is most important in cold conditions?
Hot weather can cause harmful bacterial growth in feeders.
Tens of millions of Americans get sick every year from bad food.
Infectious disease is the leading cause of human death worldwide.
What can be used to reduce greenhouse gases while generating power?
Viruses can cause a mutation in a gene.
what causes the temperature of an object to increase?
Adult tulip bulbs are what shape?
when do chromosomes form the genetic material of a cell?
To avoid hypothermia, stay warm and dry.
what do megaspores develop to do?
what is the part of the spectrum that the eye can sense
What does ginkgo biloba do every year?
Courtship is similar across species.
Lemmons willow is a deciduous shrub.
What can cut off the oxygen to cells?
Alternation of generation is typical of ferns and Bryophyta.
And the word for woman means a female of any age.
Density is the population divided by the area.
Most people can survive only a few days without controlling the body's what?
What has a three chambered heart?
Pollen consists of tiny grains that are the male gametes of plants.
what can only contract?
What does mitosis often cause?
Propellers are on some airplanes primarily to give
Pesticides for cranberries pollute the water.
Hawks are strong, powerful birds.
Water is released by the processes of photosynthesis and respiration.
What is the final stage of mitosis?
What do plants require to grow?
a solar panel converts sunlight into electricity
Viruses contain DNA but not much else.
What sea creature reproduces without gamete fusion?
Evolution is a change in the characteristics of living things over time.
Mitosis begins when what unite in fertilization? 
Life continues because of reproduction.
what typically travel long distances?
Oil and gasoline are fossil fuels.
What reproduces asexually by doing forming spores?
what type of antigens does the immune system recognize as foreign to the body?
Plants are multicellular eukaryotes with cell walls composed primarily of what?
Bulbs planted over the years include tulips and daffodils.
what do male dogs use in their urine to mark their territory?
Which natural occurrence comes from Earth being tilted on a rotating axis?
What does a ship move from continent to continent?
Cytokinesis Two daughter cells are formed.
DNA Structure DNA Structure DNA is a right hand double helix of polynucleotides.
Mass, the amount of matter in an object, is measured in grams.
Where do plants lose water to?
How does the phylum Nematoda reproduce?
What can dog behavior be learned through?
Chordates have a complete digestive system and a closed circulatory system.
Oxygen exchange is needed for plant respiration.
Some, such as bamboo and palm trees, have secondary growth.
Evolution changes the characteristics of what over time?
when a hemisphere is tilted towards the sun , that hemisphere has more what?
What is created from cycles of freezing and thawing water?
What rock is formed by extreme heat and pressure
what is individuals moving into or out of a population?
During windy weather, the pollution is dispersed and cleared away.
What do hurricanes convert?
what are monophyletic with four limbs ?
Smoke Tobacco smoke , whether directly or passively inhaled, has been shown to worsen asthma.
Beets and carrots are the roots of plants.
how is length determined?
Rubber bands are available in the laboratory.
Involuntary contractions, shivering, cause the production of heat.
Heating by direct heat is usually too hot.
Kids play sports for fun.
what is more complex in eukaryotes than prokaryotes?
Beaches and Sand Dunes Dunes are accumulations of sand blown from the beach by the wind.
How are alluvial aquifers created?
what reproduce asexually
If there's a drought, a lot of people die.
waxy leaves are used for storing water by some plants
DNA is made up of nucleotides.
When an object moves or vibrates, the air molecules around the object also vibrate.
What is a tape measure used to measure?
What can an animal's movement be changed to
Nutrients are naturally present in the soil and are found as either minerals or elements.
Vibrating matter can cause music through what?
what are used to see small things by biologists to make them appear bigger?
what is regulated by breathing?
what can most people only survive a few days without?
Just like sweating, the evaporation of the water cools the body.
Smoke inhalation and thermal lung injury cause direct lung injury.
what make pituitary hormones?
Fall colors begin as deciduous trees lose their leaves.
Gases from burning coal and and oil dissolving in the atmosphere can cause what?
Which organism lacks ribosomes?
Animals are dependent on plants for food and habitat.
Kinetic energy is energy of movement and also includes heat energy and light energy.
what cause loud noises to animals
What do many birds do before they mate?
Brains are for important tasks, like thinking.
High pressure usually indicates the weather is fair and dry.
Plants produce flowers for reproduction.
Most copepods feed on phytoplankton.
Earthworms ingest sediment and extract what from soil?
What causes pollination?
What can help with sinus infections?
What are built by organisms that usually reproduce asexually?
The birds enthusiastically sought nectar.
What must be adapted to salt water?
If the egg is fertilized, it can implant in the uterus and cause pregnancy.
Bees are necessary to
For a smoother flavor, bring soup to a boil.
what have humans collected and grown for food for thousands of years?
Convection is the transmission of heat by the mass movement of the heated particles.
What does fur do?
Like a mushroom, it lacks chlorophyll and is nonphotosynthetic.
What can loud noises be?
What do reptiles have?
Biodiversity contributes to ecosystem complexity.
Animals acquire nutrients by ingestion.
Hypothermia, a drop in the body's normal core temperature, can be caused by overexposure to cold.
Where does a starfish have its water vascular system?
Abrasion is particle by particle erosion.
Organisms cluster around hydrothermal vents in the ocean floor.
Polar bears are mammals.
What is used for keeping food fresh for a long period of time?
Bulbs are classifies as tunicate or non-tunicate.
Chromosomes are made up of DNA and histone proteins.
what does using renewable resources to generate power reduce?
For salmon, habitat includes freshwater, estuarine and marine habitat.
What do mold spores have a negative impact on?
What does the Earth being tilted on its rotating axis cause?
Where are bacteria found?
Seed is disseminated by transport on animal hides.
Why do some animals grow thicker fur around Christmas in the Northern hemisphere?
Breathing Stomach muscles press against the resistance of the diaphragm.
Deep burrowing earthworms improve soil porosity, water movement and plant root growth.
When water vapor condenses, energy in the form of heat is given to the remaining air molecules.
a process that can occur in-vitro takes place inside the what type of organism?
Chlorophyll is a pigment that makes plants green.
What can cause temperature fluctuations.
What are connected to structural and functional units of the nervous system?
Nephrons consist of vascular and tubular components.
what gets organic compounds from dead organisms?
What control many cell activities and are very important for the chemical equilibrium of the body?
energy leaves from what when sweat contacts with skin
Vanes rotating in an electric fan causes air molecules to what?
blowing air into a whistle causes a what?
An adult human is a diploid organism.
Which material slows the transfer of electricity?
Bats and owls are nocturnal animals.
Tobacco Consumption Most of the tobacco is consumed in the form of cigarettes.
Biodiversity encourages a healthier ecosystem.
Green plants are food producers.
Likewise, eating certain foods can also cause serious sickness.
All sediments originate from the weathering and erosion of older rocks.
what seeds come from male gametes of plants?
What does uneven heating by the Sun cause?
Copper is used in wires and such.
Iron oxide gives a rusty red color to sedimentary rocks.
Lakes are generally bigger and deeper than the birth home of what animal?
What serves as insulation to keep the body warm?
Caffeine is a stimulant, and a stimulant constricts blood vessels.
When startled or hurt, hamsters can deliver quite a bite.
What causes an image to reflect?
Vegetation Vegetation or plants are in abundunce in the tundra.
What do pedals usually cause a bicycle to do?
Mammals breathe with the help of a diaphragm.
What is caused by a reduction of a hormone that helps cells absorb sugar from the blood?
Salt particles come from the ocean as the spray of waves evaporates, leaving salt particles suspended in the air.
what layer can heat and pressure be felt from nerves?
Friction is dependant on the texture of both surfaces.
Cells are microscopic in size, requiring microscopes for visualization .
Water vapor turning from a gas into a liquid causes what?
Two forces at an equilibrium on an object in opposite directions will keep the object what?
What are killer whales?
An example of an animal that has permeable skin is
By default all objects are assumed to be solid.
Flooding can wipe out an entire crop.
Chromosomes contain genes, each encoded as a subsection of the DNA chain.
How many stages does the process that produces gametes have?
what causes objects to repel each other?
Earthworms are perhaps the most familiar decomposer.
what can change a substance to a liquid
What can protect plants from cold?
What, if heated, evaporates while salt remains?
What is created when a solvent dissolves a solute? 
Cancer is a family of diseases that is characterized by cells that replicate too rapidly.
Population Population A population is comprised of the individuals of a species within an area.
Muscles can only contract.
Infection is spread by infected mosquitoes.
what utilize photosynthesis for chemical energy
Light makes plants grow tall.
Heat is essential to the burning process.
A bulb with electrical energy does what to the overall space?
Viruses are acellular and live on materials of other life.
Relaxation is a prerequisite to rest and good sleep.
What could prevent a light bult from turning on?
Mutations are essential for evolution to occur.
Motion, Move, Movement refer to change of position in space.
Brain cells begin to die as soon as the heart stops pumping oxygen.
Most human enzymes work at a optimal pH of 7.4, but other enzymes work at many different pH ranges.
What does solar power reduce?
Pollens originate from plants.
Which power source reduces greenhouse gases
Radioactive dating requires the use of a decay curve.
What can have a primary and secondary meristem?
Tree rings are examined to learn the forest age and growth rate.
What type of wave results from snapping a rubber band?
Mutations are sources of variations in offspring.
What do giraffes require for survival?
What happens when there are random changes in the genetic information of an organism?
What do plants do during the day but not during the night?
Of all the planets, Mars is most like Earth.
Competition for nest sites can be fierce and fighting is common.
Narcotic analgesics act on the central nervous system to relieve pain.
An animal requires what for survival?
When is timing critical for plants?
What are formed by sediments such as clay and sand by water?
Mollusks are the second-largest invertebrate group.
what creates a completely immobile human?
What can cause the chemical disintigration of rocks
Populations of viruses do not grow through division because they are what?
Climate change is likely to have a significant impact on the global environment and human society.
a part of birds where what is dominant to curly helps them fly and provides insulation?
What is the microscopic building block of any living being?
What do things that cannot make their own food need as a nutrient?
How is plasma formed?
meiosis is the type of cell division that produces what?
Irradiating food prevents what?
Bacterial microorganisms are representative of these biological factors, and e-coli food poisoning is a good example.
what has a positive impact on an ecosystem?
Infections of the lungs can be caused by bacteria, viruses or fungi.
What is used to move people across an ocean?
Every object in the game has mass, density, and material properties.
How do ships find submarines?
An inability to shiver or react to the cold can contribute to hypothermia.
If a planet is too close to a star, then it will be too hot for liquid water to exist.
What is used to measure inches?
Using what can require burning gasoline?
Most animals without a backbone have what?
What can convert chemical energy into audible waves?
Ethologists study how animals use what in their natural environment
What is a central nervous system stimulant?
Heat is produced by muscle action and shivering.
What can lead to bullying?
Cancer is a disease of the body's cells.
what do men need to live?
Seahorses inhabit shallow coastal waters, especially seagrass beds, coral reefs and mangrove swamps.
If the switch is open, electricity flows, and the light is on.
What converts chemical energy into light energy?
Refrigerators are suppose to add coldness to the food inside of it.
What helps plants grow?
what only have one cell and no tissue?
Organs such as the stomach and liver also begin to develop.
What do Coccolithophorids have?
What is used to study viruses?
What is in fruit? 
What can cause evolution to occur?
Due to the drought, there is no water.
weather cause change to the what
Green plants are known as producers .
The pull of what on the Earth's oceans cause the tides?
Inflammation causes the tissues that line the airways to swell and produce extra or thick mucus.
what is the surface of a beach formed by?
Gasoline lawn mowers can be as bad as cars when it comes to emissions.
Decomposition is the breakdown of organic molecules into inorganic molecules.
Protein transportation between the ER and the Golgi require what?
Early in human history, energy was first used by people for heating, lighting, and cooking.
What has a positive impact on a human 's health?
If parents are distracted while driving, accidents are more likely.
Where does rain come from?
Hydropower is a renewable resource.
what are multicellular eukaryotes?
Unlike animal communication, properly human communication is abstract and linguistic in nature.
What allows candles to burn and wax to melt?
_  is how organisms grow and repair themselves.
If the rocks are not as brittle, they will either tilt or fold.
What can happen when an animal doesn't drink enough water?
Which gland has the largest impact on human metabolism?
What easily changes shape from smooth into compacted by physical force?
radioactive dating is used to determine the age of fossils
What may be stored in limestone for millions of years?
A molecule that causes antibody production is found on what?
What do thyroid hormones increase?
Busses and trains are excellent modes of transportation.
Exercise is more than running and lifting.
When it is tilted away from the sun, it is winter.
coal is used for generating heat by burning
Heat and temperature are the same.
Fire is a combustion reaction.
Bromeliads are a group of plants that have stiff, waxy leaves that form a cup-shaped body.
Aphids are soft-bodied insects with relatively long legs and antennae.
What can happen with the immune system when the body has cancer?
DDT protects plants by doing what?
Which natural process can cause erosion?
Proteins are sometimes coats of a virus.
Frankly, long hair is quite different to a mullet style.
Thunderstorms Thunderstorms give birth to tornadoes.
Chondrocytes contain which type of protein?
Intrinsic proteins are embedded in the phospholipid.
Contraction is a type of movement.
Reptilia contains over 7800 entries on numerous species of reptiles.
Molds and yeast are fungi.
When the body is warm, heat production is minimized.
What do clams feed on?
producing thrust causes something to move
what changes from earth's tilt on its rotating axis?
What part of a light bulb has energy run through it, converting energy into light?
How do substances react with each other?
Cutting down what has a negative impact on living communities?
Cancerous melanoma Skin melanoma is one of the most cancerous skin cancers.
Production of ethanol is dependent  on 
For example, Samsung sells a cell phone that supports voice dialing.
Cartilage is composed of fibrous collagen in an amorphous gel.
Cancer cells are abnormal and divide without control or order.
plants that shed their leaves seasonally each year include what?
What infests nearly all puppies and kittens?
Biological evolution is slow, while corporate evolution is fast.
When algae dies, it uses oxygen to decompose.
For example, ocean tides are caused by the sun and moon's gravity pulling on the water.
Mammals depend on the vegetation for food and shelter.
what travels throughout the body in the blood?
An odor, by definition, is a sensation, stimulation or perception of the sense of smell.
Bird beaks are generally adapted for the food they eat.
Most soft-bodied invertebrates have what?
How do coyotes conserve body heat?
Turtles can have roundworms.
Highly acid soil is detrimental to crop growth and biological activity in soil.
what have specialized reproductive organs
What occurs when the encasing of a plant cell relaxes?
Magnetism is the force where objects are attracted or repelled to one another.
Mutagenic chemicals cause mutations.
Bored animals play, according to Spencer.
What is used to cook with a pan?
What converts liquid to gas?
What can be used by animals to share information?
Life during most of the Precambrian was restricted to bacteria and algae.
DNA is the genetic material responsible for heredity.
Animals may leave an environment to _.
Fertilization produces a diploid zygote which develops into the next sporophyte generation.
What does bone provide protection for in humans?
what do viruses contain?
What will prevent the formation of sand dunes?
what are single-celled organisms that lack a nucleus?
the movement what over Earth 's surface causes local weather changes
For men, orgasm occurs when climax causes muscles to contract and release what?
What is a single organism that produces both seed and eggs?
water causes refraction of light
Chromosomes are the form of the genetic material of a cell during cell division.
Good drainage is essential for growing plants in containers.
What may eat other organisms at more than one trophic level?
Chemical weathering is strongest in tropical environments.
Most soil is made of weathered rocks.
What is something that correlates with temperature change?
Deposit feeders ingest sediment and then extract the food.
_ are aerobic
Most fossils are formed when sediment is deposited by wind or water.
Unequal heating by the sun s rays causes differences in temperature.
Eukaryotes have many organelles.
For the square, the side is of length x.
Each stone incorporates a groove for sharpening pointed objects such as fish hooks and darts.
Arteries generally carry bright red what?
what do seeds need?
Species consist of groups of interbreeding populations.
Specialization decreases mortality 12,13 and increases survival.
Moles find prey mainly by using their ability to sense what
DNA makes RNA and RNA makes protein.
For example, salt is NaCl.
phase changes do not change mass
what helps assemble proteins?
Another of our five major senses is the sense of smell.
More daylight brings a stronger sun.
Violent weather can dramatically alter the landscape.
what rotates causing cycles of day and night?
Asteriods are often pulled into the planet Jupiter by what force?
A chemical reaction involving what converts chemical energy into light and heat energy?
humans have complete digestive systems and what bodies.
What causes the removal of rock particles?
What change is likely in a hemisphere when it is pointed away from the sun?
what propels a spacecraft?
What does lifting weights increase?
What type of water is in lakes 
What causes food to break down?
having bread daily has a positive impact on some organism 's what
Today's animal is the cow.
Amphibians with what are more advanced than fish?
More condensing water means more of what?
In the male orgasm, where is sperm propelled from?
What are the affects of burning fuel on human health?
Some agents that infect cells live in what state inside the body?
Light shining through glass will look like what after exiting?
liquids heated are affected by
What does movement designed to work a specific muscle or muscles do?
Fish have a centralized nervous system with a brain.
What is the form of genetic material used during mitosis called?
How do beavers move through water quickly?
Which type of system do most animals without backbones have?
When the pituitary produces FSH and LH, the ovaries respond by producing eggs.
Heat transfer is by conduction, convection, and radiation.
Honeybees and other bees transfer the pollen.
Each stage is a trophic level.
Emission from cars contribute to which weather phenomenon?
Sweat wets the skin, and when it evaporates, it cools the body.
What be caused by some viruses?
Oak trees are found throughout.
Oceans contain salt water.
Habitat Hairy-nosed wombats are terrestrial and build burrows.
shelter is used for protection by animals against weather
Gasoline ignites easily and burns vigorously.
What characteristics do chordates have? 
Geologic time lines are expressed in geologic eras and periods.
What can protect the body from harmful substances?
Hypothyroidism is associated with an increased TSH level.
Precipitation filling an underground void can create what?
what can be added to a solid to decrease its freezing point?
Earthworms have the amazing capacity to regrow segments that:
The body needs the digestive system to do what?
What can cells do only a certain number of times?
Fog When driving, fog is an obstacle or a hindrance that makes things obscure.
Most shrews live on or under the ground, searching through the vegetation for food.
When a big tree falls, sunlight shines on smaller plants and they get a chance to grow.
Movements in the earth's crust have folded and cracked the older rocks.
What is exerted on a kicked object?
What does using a car require?
Carbon dioxide is formed by burning carbon.
what causes weathering over long periods of time?
Carbon is an essential component of all living organisms.
Caves or rock overhangs provide shelter.
What  weathers rocks?
Water vapor is a gas in the air.
What is sonar used to find?
A bulb requires electrical energy to produce part of what kind of spectrum?
What do plants use to attract pollinators?
E.g., growth in plants is mostly confined to meristems.
Something that swims from male to female reproductive organs for fertilization uses what to move?
Animals are diploid, eukaryotic and multicellular.
Wind erosion is the movement and deposition of soil particles by wind.
If a tree falls, then sunlight becomes available to what?
Sex hormones are chemical messengers that control sexual development and reproduction.
Lack of rain last winter has intensified Arizona's drought.
What convert electricity into light and heat energy?
From that time on, the respiratory system supplies the body with the oxygen it needs to survive.
Plants are very easily raised from seed, sown in a cold greenhouse from February to April.
Earthquakes generate P waves and S waves which can travel throughout the earth.
All organisms have life cycles.
what have a characteristic life cycle that includes alternation of generations?
Basalts are volcanic, micro-crystalline rock.
In order to operate at night, solar-powered LED lights require what?
Populations are large groups of individuals.
Proteins give rise to emergent properties.
Carbon cycles quickly between organisms and
Rocks and grasses glisten with dew.
semi-arid climates have plants that are able to do what with water
Climate is the average weather in an area over a long period of time.
Heating and air conditioning keep the building comfortable regardless of the temperature outside.
What can prevent 90 percent of the body's heat loss?
What lives in large colonies?
How are plant cells around the vascular tissue created?
The light from the moon we see with our eyes originates from the
Low latitudes, for instance, receive more heat during the day than stations at high latitudes.
What helps plants germinate?
what is found in DNA
Gold is a precious metal.
Raw proteins provide nutrients for regeneration of cells, promoting healing, youth and longevity.
Raw juices contain dangerous bacteria.
Animals hibernate to conserve what?
What are plants and animals?
When contracted the triceps femoris pulls the thigh forward and extends the shank.
Echolocation be used to find the what of an object?
What are insects? 
soil erosion means soil loss through wind
a battery converts chemical energy into electrical energy
Trout is an extremely versatile fish.
What shape is the organ where fertilization occurs when sperm swim to an egg?
Metastatic cancer is cancer that has spread.
What is more complex in eukaryotes than in prokaryotes?
This determines whether an object will sink or float:
How are limestone caves formed?
Horses are domestic animals.
What can keep mold from entering the respiratory system?
What has primary and secondary meristems for growth in length and width?
Transpiration is when steam moves from _ into the atmosphere
Condensation on roofs at night is common in cooler weather.
Evaporation is when a liquid turns into a gas.
What is one way an object's shape can be changed?
what does a pan on the stove make food?
Ducks generally have webbing on their feet.
Cells converting from oxygen and carbohydrates into carbon dioxide, water and energy is a requirement for what?
Shelter is the forth and final requirement for a habitat.
What is formed by the breaking down of rocks?
Some tissues such as muscle require insulin to absorb sugar.
Water hydrates the cells.
What does dropping an object in the water do?
Mitosis is part of the cell cycle.
What can scraping oneself cause?
Fish and other small aquatic animals can be placed in the aquarium for visual purposes.
What had to bend to form the Himalayas?
Kinetic energy is energy in motion.
what does extreme heat and pressure change rock into?
On many broad-leaved trees, what usually changes in the autumn season?
Ribosomes consist of RNA and proteins.
the ability to store what can be used for keeping warm
What can be produced by capturing water at high tide?
How do plants make food?
Earthquakes are caused by fault movement.
what gets food by eating other living things?
What happens when people flow into or out of a population?
Increasing heat causes what?
Primary producers make up the lowest trophic level.
what may die if it becomes too hot?
what does bone provide protection for?
Today, new kinds of windmills, called wind turbines, generate electricity.
what can animals use a long tail to move through?
what receives more direct sunlight when tilted towards the sun?
Viral infection means there is a virus living in the body.
Chromosomal abnormalities can be examined by chromosome analysis.
What on the pedals of a bike cause that bike to move?
Light rays are focussed on the retina.
what influence plant growth, biodiversity, and adaptations of land organisms?
For each species, mammal or bird, there are very specialized diets.
viruses infect and live inside the cells of what?
Tetrapod classification Tetrapods are monophyletic.
During the day, sunlight warms the soil.
Where do plants store water?
Tree-ring dating the 1700 Cascadia earthquake.
What is motion sickness related to?
What is an example of a plant that supplies most of the food consumed by people worldwide?
What can hurt plant populations?
Plants are producers are consumers are omnivores .
what causes cancer by producing mutations in DNA?
Where does silt come from?
consumers are what in terrestrial biomes
What can contract a little bit all at once as a short term adjustment to the cold?
What does fanning a fire do?
a tape measure is used to measure what?
Cells are the microscopic building blocks of organisms.
Light energy is converted into heat energy.
Cells secrete acids and bases to maintain enzyme systems what?
Any precipitation is snow, that's for sure.
Animals use sound in sophisticated ways.
Many computer Cases cool down temperature by using Cooling Fan.
what can mountain barriers influence?
For long distance traveling, it is best to fly.
habitat destruction causes animals to move to find shelter in another habitat
Formation of the Himalaya mountain range was driven by 
Soil Erosion Soil erosion is caused by disturbance of a land surface.
Electromagnetic Spectrum Different wavelengths of light are refracted by different amounts.
What is one reason birds have covered bodies?
Crustaceans are predominantly aquatic, breathing by means of gills.
what increases a body's strength
What have parts that regenerate after bisection?
the what is a defense against harmful particles from entering the body
With less sunlight, the forest is cooler and wetter.
What can be used to measure the amount of matter an object contains?
Electricity moves well through wires and water.
Budgerigars crack the seed, eat the kernel, and leave the husk.
Cups are used to note the accurate volume of what?
Humans depend on plants and animals for survival.
Pathogenic organisms that live inside cells have a neat adaptation.
Fuel is considered a chemical energy.
being exposed to wind can cause scarring to what?
Amphibians have lungs, but they also breathe through their skin.
And whenever there is friction, energy is lost.
What does cooking food do?
Polyps usually reproduce asexually.
Fluids in the urine eliminate metabolic waste products.
nectar is used for attracting pollinators by plants
Streams may start with runoff or water seeping out of a spring.
Plants are Earth's producers.
Most of what type of animal is known for having a shell?
What can a dam form?
Unlike the unisexual gametophytes of a moss, a fern gametophyte is bisexual.
what are organisms that make food for themselves and other organisms?
Leaves are slightly waxy and prevent drying in our semi-arid climate.
Amphibians begin their lives in the water.
Bike shoes allow a rider to pull during the whole pedal stroke.
Many plants produce flowers.
Parts of the Earth's crust being pushed together causes what?
Natural disasters can cause relocation to do what in an environment
what feeds on plankton and nonliving organic matter?
what aren't viruses?
Cross Pollination Cross pollination is the gene flow between similar species of plants.
Fire is a chemical reaction involving rapid oxidation or burning of a fuel.
What can communicate with sounds?
what is absorbed in the small intestine?
What is required for seeing?
Bromeliads and cacti are xerophytes.
Ingredients can irritate what?
Water easily flows through what?
What do phones require to function?
What produces a diploid zygote?
What does reducing heat change gas into?
To fisherfolk, coral reefs are homes to fish that are waiting to be caught.
electrical current running through a wire can damage the insulation or what?
Female gametes are eggs or ova.
what happens when a cooler object touches a warmer object?
What do salamanders use to find prey?
Oceans are important to life on Earth.
Small stalactites predominate on the cave roof.
Marble Marble is a metamorphic rock.
Chronic stress increases thyroid hormone production.
What protects the body from harmful substances?
All of what have a characteristic life cycle that includes alternation of descendants?
heating salt water leaves the salt where?
Uneven heating of Earth's surface causes the movement of what?
Plants have a life cycle which includes both sexual reproduction and what?
And light broken into many pieces is a rainbow.
Pollution is the release of harmful substances into the environment.
Verbal violence is hostile aggression.
When conception occurs in the female, a sperm fertilizes an egg.
What causes frostbite of tissue?
Excess nitrogen causes lush growth and late plants.
Centrioles are organelles involved in creating what
Leo's symbol is the lion.
what does a generator use?
What kind of animals has a water vascular system with tubed feet?
Automobiles and the burning of fossil fuels generate gases such as sulphur dioxide.
Pollination is by flies, wasps, and bees.
When something makes a noise it is vibrating.
What can have a negative impact on the population size of a species?
Most arthropods are insects.
Gneiss Rocks Gneiss Rocks Gneiss rocks are metamorphic.
What are critical for erectile health?
Forests provide a clean and comfortable environment.
Information is provided by chromosome or by institution.
What comes from burning coal and oil dissolving in water in the atmosphere?
What is produced by a laser?
All cells are microscopic in size.
What don't arthropods have?
Echidnas reproduce how?
Our Nesco Food Dehydrators require no tray rotation due to a patented air flow system.
Oxygen-rich blood is critical for erectile health.
Which type of star is most likely to end up as black hole?
Ferns have no flowers, fruits or seeds.
Plants attract bees with what?
Planting seeds is a study of seeds and their growth.
What does population size influence on a species?
What do cycles of freezing and thawing water cause?
All electrons contain energy.
Blood sugar is used for energy by what?
All matter is made of molecules.
Why is it good for animals to carry seeds?
recycling reduces what when making something?
Earthworms eat dirt, which is good for what?
What requires a battery to produce light?
Regions on display include the Western Hemisphere , and the Eastern Hemisphere .
What is caused by a lack of a hormone that helps cells absorb sugar from the blood?
Water as a Solvent Water is an excellent solvent.
What contains an abundance of deoxyribonucleic acid and not much else?
Wood is being burned in fireplaces, stoves and insert stoves.
Also, pain is an excellent deterrent.
Greenhouse gases act as the glass in a greenhouse.
_ can cause infections to grow.
Light energy can become heat energy and heat energy can become light energy.
What can mutations cause?
What can separate from a solvent in a solution, creating table salt?
Menopause before age 40 is considered premature menopause.
Also known as an cyclone , it is the opposite of an area of high pressure , or a anticyclone.
What derive energy from the breakdown of organic molecules?
Fossil Fuels Fuels that are formed in the earth from plant or animal remains.
What tool can be used to measure distances?
What is a source of drinking water?
Through weathering, the surface was eroded away, exposing igneous rock.
An ecosystem contains many habitats.
Orange trees are evergreen trees.
What causes the amount of daylight to change?
Arthropods are eaten seasonally.
Ethology is the study of behavior.
what converts mechanical energy into kinetic energy when it moves?
eggs need to incubate to what
What sheds their leaves seasonally each year?
Proteins leave the ER in transport vesicles 5.
what is found in chromosomes?
Lymphocytes are a key cell involved in what type of reaction?
What reduces heat necessary for maximum predatory activity?
The tiny animals known as zooplankton feed on
What can cause melting?
What is used by animals to realize their bodies need hydration?
ALL proteins are antigens.
Abalone are marine snails.
What supplement would a human take to aid in breaking down food?
Rain causes the breaking apart and moving of rocks and what?
Lung mechanics and gas exchange are topics during study of the respiratory system.
What releases oxygen during the day but not during the night?
What has a negative impact on the environment?
Estuaries are where the river meets the ocean.
speciation events are an example of something that occurs above the level of what?
What are used for seeing by animals by sensing electromagnetic waves?
Propane can be either a liquid or a gas.
Deciduous trees are Oak, Elm, Ash, Maple, and Birch.
What happens when average worldwide seasonal temperatures rise?
crossing two living things with what causes their offspring to have it?
what can a field cause objects to do?
Sulfuric acid is a highly corrosive chemical.
Low TSH levels occur in hyperthyroidism.
linked _ are located on the same DNA molecule
What requires electrical energy to produce photons?
Collapsed stars are dead stars.
Fungi and bacteria feed on the dead fibers.
Ice wedging causes what to be severely damaged?
What do plasma cells allow our bodies to fight?
Heat causes molecules of the material to vibrate.
Smoke from cigarettes contains tar, which sticks to the cilia in our lungs.
Gametophytes of extant genera are green, photosynthetic,and have a long ribbon shaped thallus.
Floods are deadly, floods are devastating.
Aeration quickly changes the chemistry of the soil.
Urination requires relaxation of the sphincter muscle.
Organisms or living beings are literally things that are alive.
Motility is lost if the specimen dries.
Microscopes are needed as most aquatic invertebrates are quite small.
Producers make up the first trophic level, primary consumers the second, and so on.
What travels long distances?
How is a mirror image formed?
what do zooplankton feed on?
Why do the flightless have feathers?
what suddenly gets much smaller with the bottleneck effect
What does a tropical cyclone convert heat energy into?
What has radial symmetry?
irradiating food can be used to kill existing microorganisms in the food
Training animals in zoos is similar to the way they what in the wild
Scrubbers significantly reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide.
if a tree falls then sunlight becomes available to the surrounding plants
What do Xerophytes do to adapt to dry environments?
Human longevity and reproduction are positively impacted by:
What would an alligator turn into if it died and was buried in the mud?
What is a curse?
What can cause burns?
Output of the fan is varied by means of a series of adjustable vanes upstream of the impeller.
What helps animals survive?
Air contains oxygen.
What effect would less garbage have on the environment?
What has lower temperatures?
Vegetative life can live anywhere on earth and also share what characteristics?
An object made out of gold will be what?
A fibrod, wart and, cancer are all forms of what cell?
Earth Jupiter Jupiter's mass is 318 times greater than Earth's mass.
Many muscle fibers contracting at once can be induced by
Communication is the exchange of information, ideas and emotions.
Insects have exoskeletons.
When ears detect the vibrating air, signals are sent to the brain that are interpreted as sounds.
Roller coaster work the same as any object having mass being pulled how on a planet
What phylum are Nematodes in?
Cinnamon sticks are simply pieces of tree bark.
Generally, athletes wait for their sense of thirst to signal that it's time to drink.
Temperature sensors in vertebrates are located in the skin and in the hypothalamus.
How is coal made?
Bacteria and cyanobacteria are prokaryotic organisms.
What do mollusks hearts circulate through the body?
City employees use bicycles on the job to save energy and reduce air pollution.
Which of the following does not contribute to global warming?
What do fires require to get started?
What do producers turn sunlight into?
With a tape measure, find the dimensions of the room.
Sweat is released from sweat glands beneath the skin, and as it evaporates, the skin is cooled.
Some local winds include sea breezes, land breezes, and monsoons.
What does decomposition do?
Moles can be found in tunnels under the ground.
What tool might measure something in meters?
what grows towards a light source?
Plants create what through photosynthesis?
Zooplankton are tiny animals that feed on what?
What can destroy cancer cells?
RNA molecules deliver the DNA messages to the protein-manufacturing assembly line of the cells.
Each beach experiences different rates of beach erosion.
Forest habitats are destroyed.
Fireworks are illegal, including firecrackers.
What do humans use a pan and stove for?
What can cause cancer by producing mutations in DNA?
Cell division can be what?
Adaptation living things adapt to their environment.
What are two things that are important for plants?
Copper is a great thermal conductor.
Mitosis produces diploid cells.
Flagella are hair-like projections from the surface of cells.
a battery is a source of what that is able to produce light
What process helps provide resources for producers to create food?
Temperature is a measure of the amount of heat.
What is essential for evolution to occur?
Frozen fossil animals are found in permafrost.
Another named half of the earth is the so-called Pacific hemisphere.
Rotational motion occurs when an object spins.
where is soil deposited when a river floods?
Sometimes genes are altered or mutated.
Lung cancer is the Godzilla of cancers.
Fire generates heat and light.
bacteria can be infectious and cause people to need what
What are nerves used for?
Words are only gross sounds heard through the ear.
Neurons are cells that are similar to other cells.
Earth doing what causes quick-changing weather patterns?
what does transportation do?
important food for waterfowl supply most of the food consumed by what?
Weight lifting is an example of anaerobic exercise.
And in winter it s very cold.
The determination of what is coiled structures made of DNA and proteins?
What helps cells take up glucose from the blood?
Antigens are expressed by cancer cells.
Try planting Sunflower seeds or another type of seed at your house.
What continues to grow throughout their lives? 
What have shells?
What do platypuses not have?
What does the process of urination require?
Biodiversity generally increases from the poles to the equator.
What grows roots down into the soil to absorb water and minerals?
dominant invertebrate reproduce how?
Flowers are the major greenhouse crops.
What uses something created by uneven heating of the Earth's surface?
What do animals compete for?
When telomeres become too short, the cell dies.
What can destroy tissue?
What stimulates the central nervous system?
Freezing water expands cracking and breaking the rocks.
Getting scraped with what can give oneself an infection?
Astroglial cells are the most common cells in brain tissue.
Mammals are a class of animal.
What is the study of creatures that live in water biomes?
 Earth 's tilt on its rotating axis causes changes in what
What happens with the gene flow between similar species of plants?
Oceanic organisms other than fish, such as manatees and clams, are also subjects of the poems.
Measurements are taken in inches with a tape measure.
Fresh food is good.
What condition can change an environment from green to brown?
Bees carry pollen from one plant to another when they collect both nectar and pollen.
Food has energy in it.
What comes in coiled strands?
Leaves are long, oval and waxy.
What passes traits from parents to offspring?
Energy levels can plummet due to lack of oxygen-rich red blood cells.
Sounds are caused by vibrations.
what gives rise to offspring in the reproduction process?
What impact does incineration have?
FATS, or lipids, are vital nutrients.
When the Nile floods, where is soil deposited?
Evolution over geologic time at the genus level and above is:
Coal-fired power plants also contribute heavily to global warming.
Deeper and wider rivers alter the constituents carried by what?
What occurs in response to a change in the environment?
What does goldenrod life cycle include?
a plant requires photosynthesis to grow
All humans are animals.
What is a sound used by coyotes?
Hydropower requires what?
Every car is in the group vehicles and in the group ground objects .
Where do higher levels of UV radiation reach Earth through?
What has a positive impact on forests?
What might be stored in limestone?
What can an prevent the transfer of heat from an organism's body?
What makes sedimentary rock turn into metamorphic?
When does the northern hemisphere receive the least amount of direct sunlight?
What inside of a shell requires warmth to survive?
Dear Ashlee, The heat in the reentry phase is due to friction between the spacecraft and the air.
What do cells make up of organisms?
Nitrogen Deficiency Decomposing wood requires nitrogen.
What can enter oceans in the form of sunlight of chemical compounds?
What can be bounced off the ocean floor to located objects?
Proteins, including enzymes are required for life.
Gasoline is used in cars, boats, motorcycles, lawn mowers and other engines.
Coral Reefs Coral reefs are marine biomes that are unique to tropical seas.
What causes earthquakes?
Cell division is how organisms grow and repair themselves.
Transpiration is part of what process?
What animal is protected from a wildfire due to where it resides?
Antibodies are administered to the patient in a process called passive immunization.
Plants live just about everywhere within our planet's what?
what does a refrigerator keep fresh?
What do flashlights require to produce light?
Producers are organisms that produce food for themselves and other organisms.
Car crashes also create traffic congestion and greatly disrupt travel for commuters.
oncogenes promote the division of celles with damaged what?
Receptors in the lining of the nose are:
What leaves the body upon relaxation of a muscle?
Thunderstorms create havoc.
Where do dogs store energy?
what uses play as a way to learn how to behave?
What has decreased precipitation?
what are multicellular eukaryotes with cell walls made of cellulose?
he penetration of the egg by a sperm takes place inside what?
Mutations are changes in the DNA information.
What makes a lake's depth greater?
Plant's roots growth in soil can be easily pulled if soil is what?
Speeding can be dangerous and increase stress.
Why do animals adapt?
An animal can become dehydrated after doing what?
Combustion is the process of burning.
What about an object can cause objects to be pulled towards planets?
Concentrations of what have increased over the last decade dramatically?
Bodies are physical entities.
What can affect ability to sense and maintain body position?
What can be identified after heating water?
Most of the snakes that live in swamps are poisonous.
What contains DNA but not much else?
Digestion breaks down what into components the body can absorb?
Chromosomes are units of genetic information.
An adaptation is an inherited variation that helps an organism to survive.
Yeast Saccharomyces cereviceae, or yeast, is a fungus.
The formation of more mitochondia does what?
What does water do when it's above 100 degrees?
What can microorganisms cause?
Habitat destruction due to human interaction is a problem.
What is one way to help prevent illness?
Conduction is the passing of heat through a medium.
Oxygen, for example, is produced by plants.
Population crashes in high density populations are so devastating that extinction becomes probable.
Plant reproduction often requires something that causes what?
Landscape is in turn altered by climate and weather.
Tides are the rising and falling of ocean's water.
What can have special excretory systems?
When animals sweat, evaporation of the sweat takes away body heat, thus cooling the animal.
Growth hormone is in many ways an anti-aging hormone.
Sweat cools the body and prevents internal heat from getting too high.
Nutrients that promote healing include vitamin C, zinc, copper, vitamin A, and B vitamins.
Plants are what type of organism?
Photosynthesis occurs in
Catalysts lower the activation energy for reactions.
Environment Soil erosion causes more damage than floods.
Fossils are the remains or traces of once-living organisms.
dew is formed when water vapor condenses over night
How do male dogs mark their territory?
What has vascular tissue?
What are disseminated by sticking to the fur of an animal?
Gasoline vapors are highly combustible.
Nerves can be used to feel heat and pressure on what structure
Bone matrix consists of collagen and minerals.
By the simplest definition, a planet is a large object that orbits a star.
if heat is conducted to an object then that object will what?
Electron microscope is developed in Germany.
Foods contain nutrients that provide people with necessary energy and essential nutrients.
What are pheromones used for?
What promotes the division of cells with damaged DNA?
Knowledge of woodland ecosystems is advantageous.
When will an egg become fertilized?
What is a cause of the Earth revolving around the Sun?
Animals use saturated fatty acids to store energy.
If it's cold weather, dress warmly and warm up longer.
What is vital for healthy roots?
Coats and blankets to keep warm.
water vapor moves from plants into the atmosphere through what?
Where do epiphytes live?
What grows after detecting light?
Lead poisoning is one of the more common poisonings in birds.
what can affect the respiratory system?
Nature of Light Light is a form of energy.
An electric sharpener removes too much metal and often causes waves.
What have special structures for invading and causing disease?
Most of what do not kill their hosts?
Coral reefs are made up of the accumulated exoskeletons of the coral polyp.
Snorts often are emitted by startled animals S16801.
Nitrogen is found in proteins, nucleic acids, and chlorophyll.
Tungsten filaments sealed in a glass bulb are used for what in the dark?
What happens when an animal sweats?
What do frogs breathe with when they are adults?
what is energy lost to?
electrical energy is converted into
Cytokinesis Cytokinesis, the process of cytoplasmic division, begins during telophase of mitosis.
Methanol and Ethanol are two types of alcohol fuels used in cars.
What does thick fur help a bear with?
The emission of what causes acid rain?
Honey is made up of a natural sugar.
Herbivores eat producers and are called first order consumers.
what type of location can water be conserved to help survival?
Thyroid hormones are made by the thyroid gland.
an animal usually requires a warm body temperature for survival
freezing causes a solid to form
Tissues are organized into organs.
Photosynthesis is when what converts from carbon dioxide, water and solar energy into carbohydrates?
What allows one to sense and maintain body position?
Recycled products conserve resources.
What causes gravity on the Earth?
Combustion of fuel is one of the main causes of air pollution.
Too many sweets can also cause tooth decay and unhealthy gums.
Arthropods with what may live in large colonies and have complex social behaviors.
Vertebrates generally have a backbone called the spinal column.
sugar causes food to taste how?
Hair helps to insulate and protect the body.
What requires fossil fuels?
what does making plastic require?
Long distance running involves  transport of
Delta Greek symbol, looks like a triangle.
Germs are a natural part of the environment.
Scavengers are also consumers, but they wait for their prey to die first.
All animals are startled by an unannounced approach, a sudden movement, or a loud noise.
Leaves Are the primary photosynthetic organs of a plant.
What do mollusks not have?
what is a negative impact on an organism
What do webbed feet help aquatic animals do?
Corals form large colonies in shallow and what waterways
Most organisms, including humans produce it.
what can wood be used for?
Erosion causes silts and mud to be what?
What requires a source of energy to produce light?
What forms beads of water? 
Cephalopods are a class of marine mollusks.
Damage to the nephrons can be caused by conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure .
Lack of what in the blood can lead to impotence? 
what are organisms mostly made out of?
For example, the tongue determines the taste of foods, deciding whether a thing is sweet or bitter.
Dead plants provide peat moss.
What can release mercury into the atmosphere? 
Neurons are the structural and functional units of the nervous system.
what is used to find objects underwater?
What swims through water?
Which of the following is due to increasing heat?
Evolution is the process of adaptation.
Death was attributed to pneumonia.
An antigen is a protein that prompts an immune response to cancer cells.
Strong, persistent thirst can be a sign of dehydration.
What can develop as a result of too much exposure to ultraviolet light in childhood?
How can we reduce resources in making products?
Sperm had to swim from male to female what for fertilization?
disease-causing microbes have a negative impact on the body
what do plants require?
Bats use echolocation which is like sonar.
Temperature Temperature is an measurement of the amount of heat.
People frequently die of illnesses .
What happens when animals eat plants?
What measure centimeters?
What is a tough tissue made by fibers connected by bridges?
Reproduction is the process by which organisms do what?
What does electron transport require?
populations need for food can lead to what
Ground wire acts as an extra conductor.
Burial of sediments also causes the sediments to increase in temperature.
which of the following are known to have complex social behaviors?
Some cars can now be powered by 
Ozone depletion causes global warming.
Sodium Chloride: It is a table salt .
What causes damage to man-made structures?
What does a gas mask keep out?
What can be used for storing water?
What hormone stimulates the development of testicles?
What is formed by rivers flowing over rocks?
How does a seed gain water in order to produce a root?
Influenza is a disease of the respiratory system.
Alcoholic fermentation of the glucose in corn produces what?
Where do some plants store their water?
What do ecosystems in nature need an influx of to remain feasible?
Form Form is the shape of objects.
Hormones are produced in Endocrine Glands .
What causes weathering when interacting with wind?
After all, driving with a cell phone can be dangerous.
Folded mountain ranges are formed by plate tectonics.
_ carry signals that control sexual development and reproduction.
Gymnosperms produce softwood .
Pollutants can be released either as gases or as particles.
An electric circuit is the path of an electric current.
Advantages and disadvantages of sexual as opposed to asexual means of reproduction.
Which of the following could cause local weather changes?
hand-knit booties help prevent the transfer of heat from what?
And because it's made entirely of metal, each pan can be used in the oven and under the broiler.
what does sperm have to swim from male to female reproductive organs for?
Engines are used to generate thrust.
Mutations that lead to cancer usually effect genes that aid in what?
what have evolved from reptile scales of bipedal dinosaurs called theropods
Humans are only animals.
DNA contains the genetic information for life.
what freezes and thaws to cause ice wedging?
Pigs are fat and kind of short.
Cell metabolism is a heat production.
Wind erosion severely damages soils and crops.
Fungus used to bake bread reproduce asexually by doing what?
What have meristems for growth?
Pesticides do what to plants by killing predators?
Plants detect and respond to what?
Quadriceps contractions and leg raises are begun immediately.
Stagnant water is often a breeding ground for mosquitoes.
Objects are seen by virtue of scattered light.
Biologists have shown that light pollution harms animals.
What do most pituitary hormones control?
Air speed is an important contributor to cooling of skin temperature.
An ejaculation occurs as the muscles around the prostate gland and the penis contract.
What goes from male to female reproductive organs for fertilization?
What are proteins the building blocks of?
What can some insects use their feelers to detect?
what is a natural process?
Many species of marine algae are toxic or harmful.
What reflex does nicotine cause because of its toxicity?
HIV, the human immunodeficiency virus, is a retrovirus.
Collagen contributes to meat toughness.
Producing impulsion causes an object to do what?
What can be used to feel heat and pressure on the skin?
Magnetism can cause objects to do what to each other?
Moles find prey mainly by using their sense of touch.
Eyes: The eyes and their surrounding area are the most fragile part of the face.
What decreases the melting point of liquid?
Petals attract pollinators to the flower.
what do ethologists study?
verbal violence is behavior that is intended to cause what?
what are used for moving people?
Food Potash is an essential plant nutrient.
Mammals have warm blood, and fur or hair, and breathe air.
Angiosperm gametophytes are in the flower.
Squirrels are the best animals since cats.
the godzilla of cancers is most often caused by exposure to what?
Winter is the coldest season.
Where do beads of water come from?
What do frogs need to survive?
Otters have thick fur coats and whiskers.
Weight is the measurment of the force of gravity on a mass.
What does bamboo require to grow?
Gametophytes have haploid cells.
Heat is produced to maintain warmth in the boy.
During prophase the chromosomes coil up.
Humans are a new type of animal.
What type of water formation is formed by clouds?
Genes that are located on the same what are inherited together
A thermal insulator slows the transfer of
Green manures can be managed to disrupt plant disease cycles or to suppress nematodes .
What can be inherited?
What is aging associated with?
Distractions of any kind are dangerous.
What insulator slows heat?
What are a source of food for many fish species?
information in an organism 's chromosomes cause genetic traits to be passed down to what? 
Forests are being hurt by the drought.
Vegetation stabilizes the sand, preventing the wind from forming dunes.
Recycling means reusing things.
Pain in the present is experienced as hurt.
All substances are composed of molecules.
microbial fuel cells convert chemical energy into electrical energy
What is the name of the light cycle that plants detect?
Most plants are either insect pollinated or wind pollinated.
What increases the rate of all the chemical processes in living organism cells?
what are commonly found in soil and water?
Cells do not include
Being exposed to wind can cause what of soil?
What helps cells take up sugar from the blood in the body?
Steam that rises from a pot of boiling water is water than has evaporated .
New cells are then created through cell division.
Transpiration occurs as long as stomates are open.
Breathing someone else's tobacco smoke can be seriously harmful to one's health.
Animals can compete for territory, water, food, or what?
what do whistles use to make sound?
Bats have hair like all mammals so they can stay warm.
What is the function of the part of a plant that has meristems?
What can cause harm to eyes?
What is formed by refraction of light by separating light into all different wavelengths?
Sulfur lowers pH in soil.
What can be used as an alternative fuel?
Reduces heat friction build up.
measure the what of the room to find dimensions
Erosion begins with the weathering, or breaking down, of rocks and soil.
Whales travel long distances each day.
Energy is used by power plants to make electricity.
Looking at bright objects can damage what structure?
What can cause tsunamis?
Inside the stem is fibrous material.
Greenhouse plants grow healthier.
Light and heat and warmth are basic necessities for survival.
Activation energy is the initial input of energy required to get the reaction started.
You can also water ski on Lake Mohave north of Davis Dam.
Urine has to pass through what as the bladder empties?
what are rivers?
plant's growth of what is benefited from sandy soil
When this floods, it deposits soil in flood plains?
Lean body mass and body fat are derived from total body water.
Genetic variation is the basis for natural selection.
Skin also helps control temperature, through adjustments of blood flow and evaporation of sweat.
Humans can use  fungus for 
An electric charge in motion is called electric current.
What is a purpose of a switch in an electrical circuit?
An example is insulin that is produced by the pancreas.
cycles of freezing and thawing water can cause what?
What can friction due to gravity cause?
what is the throwing up center of the brain used for?
Many plants alter their position when they go to sleep at night.
A striking cactus plant from Mexico.
what does humidity interfere with?
What have humans have collected and grown for food for thousands of years?
What does a plant require to grow?
Animals able to lay shelled eggs are called amniotes .
what and shallow waters provide food and shelter to many ocean organisms
DNA does what to form the genetic material of a cell during cell division?
what does rock erosion cause them to do?
What of the following can only be viewed by illuminating electrons? 
 When a mirror reflects photons it creates
Animals use saturated fatty acids to become what?
What does an automobile create when it burns fuel?
What rely on vision for long-distance orientation?
All fungi are obligate heterotrophs.
Synaptic vesicles glutamate transporter 5.
Fat is used to provide warmth and what?
Ample precipitation, including fog, is essential for growth.
What eats something that uses skin for breathing air?
fire converts chemical energy into light and heat energy
Behaviors that improve fitness increase through what?
What will accelerate the egg's chemical reaction?
burning wood is used to produce heat
what uses flagella to move?
Generally, pheromones are volatile substances.
what are the building blocks of DNA?
chemical weathering causes iron to oxidize in what?
Fats are known as lipids.
Dead tissue can be caused by what?
What slows the transfer of electricity?
Water is a mechanical weathering force.
Population growth is reduced by external migration.
A rubber band stretched too thin will have particles what?
bacteria cause food poisoning
Animals at underwater hydrothermal vents are unique.
Which parts do female duckbill platypus lack?
nerves can be used to feel heat and pressure on the skin
Thermal burns are caused by exposure to heat.
Where do platypus females lay their eggs?
Balance is the ability to sense and maintain body position.
For example, the frog is covered with skin that is porous to air.
Darwinism is strictly, selection theory.
Weather changes rapidly in all seasons.
DNA contains what for proteins where polymerase joins the nucleotides together.
Bacteria are adaptable organisms.
What's the process by which organisms give rise to offspring?
Audible ground fireworks convert chemical energy into what?
Genetic variation enables
Some species swim by means of flagella Bacterial flagella are analogous to flagella of eukaryotes.
What is one thing that is not bad for a habitat?
What causes objects to attract?
What feed on plankton and nonliving organic matter?
Eggs indicate eggs in the ovaries.
where can conserving water be used for survival in?
Well, a swamp is a type of wetland.
What hurts the environment?
population size influences the chances of what surviving?
Stones and debris can cause serious eye injuries when thrown.
Sunlight shines through the atmosphere and is absorbed by the Earth's surface.
Strong winds increase the concentration of oxygen available to the fire.
what causes sedimentation?
What do rivers deposit when they flood?
Through reproduction, the parents transmit genes to the offspring.
Changes in what can cause extreme shortages of food?
More trees are cut for firewood and for homes.
And humans do come from eggs, eggs without shells, they are called ovum.
Water expands as it freezes into ice.
High humidity can cause mildew, while dry heat and direct sunlight can cause drying and cracking.
what does glass cause?
hitting an object causes the particles in that object to create what?
And then the construction debris cleaned up.
What contains genetic instructions?
Helper T Cells Helper T cells are the brains behind immune response.
Humans use evaporation of water, sweat, to cool their bodies.
Liquid waste passes through the blood and the urinary system .
Estuaries allow for appropriate what for a species
Relocation requires moving a family and a lifestyle.
When lung damage is experienced, frequently the total capacity of the respiratory system is reduced.
Insulin is a hormone that helps absorb what from the blood?
What often requires a lot of energy?
Yes, foreigners are called Aliens.
Adult members of the Porifera phylum produce what?
Fungi spores can develop into new haploid individuals without being fertilized.
DNA is the genetic material in the cell, and is found in the nucleus in the chromosomes .
When metal is warmed, the transfer of heat does what to metal?
What do insects sense with their antennae?
the gravitational pull of the Moon on Earth 's oceans causes water to enter and leave the bay when
Streams and rivers are crossed on rocks, beaver dams, on fallen trees or by wading.
Drought, or a lack of water, is often a problem for farmers and communities around the world.
What has permeable skin?
Food preparation for retention of nutrients is included.
Macroevolution occurs how above the level of the species.
Something more complex in eukaryotes than prokaryotes leads to what?
Prokaryotes lack introns, whereas eukaryotes contain introns.
When does water evaporate more quickly?
What type of organism has a nucleus?
passive immunity lasts only as long as the antibodies survive where?
What is a method for changing an object's shape?
What is considered nonliving?
Incinerated mercury pollutes the air.
What destroys rainforests?
Fire has intense heat.
Wild animals are habitual creatures.
An isotope capable of undergoing fission is called a fissile isotope .
what provides energy for an organism?
Genetic diversity is really a form of biodiversity.
Metal expands when warm and contracts when cool.
Negative impacts on organisms can be what?
Water from the air occurs when it changes from gas into a liquid by reducing what?
Erosion sculpts the landscape, creating fantastic rock formations.
Birds are a class of the chordates or vertebrate phylum.
ultraviolet light causes sunburn
Heat causes most chemical reactions to accelerate.
Although the platypus is a mammal, it is bizarre and lays eggs .
What is a tape measure used for?
Chrissospilia is a cave with stalagmites and stalactites.
what protects the body from harmful substances?
What may be caused by an infection or injury of the lungs?
What allows for budding?
Blood is filtered in the kidney.
Which gender is more likely to cause harm or pain during the mating season?
sunlight and rain can cause a rainbow
Jewelry is made of silver, gold or platinum and is usually set with precious stones.
what impact does smoking have?
faulting of rock in Earth 's crust causes earthquakes
What  heats most of the Earth's surface during the day?
Marmots in what will be protected from wild fires?
What can reproduce themselves?
What is needed by living things?
Most mowers are powered by gasoline-driven combustion engines.
what ingests sediment and extracts food particles?
Length Rope lengths are measured in meters.
Where does the energy in ecosytems come from?
What have humans collected and grown as food for thousands of years?
What causes an object to heat?
Almost all of our turtles are aquatic or semi-aquatic.
What animal found on Earth would belong to the phylum Platyhelmintes?
Bees are absolutely essential for pollination.
What can kill?
microorganisms cause food to spoil
Although the herpes virus never leaves the body, it can lay dormant for long periods of time.
Sinkholes are common in the southwestern portion of the subsection.
What can decreasing an object's speed create?
How is dew formed?
what is a balance used for measuring in an object?
Looking at what has a negative impact on the eyes?
Landslides indicate unstable terrain.
Then dawn breaks and with it comes daylight, illumined by the sun.
The deposition of sediment at the mouth of a river by water fanning out is called by what name?
Rainbow A most charming example of chromatic dispersion is a rainbow.
Excretion refers to the processes by which the body eliminates a drug.
When the seasons change from the summer to the fall, the amount of what will decrease?
What can ant bites do?
Organic materials, or living things, are biodegradable.
What are barrel-shaped?
Kicked Ball A kicked ball is one struck by a player's foot, or leg below the knee.
Basal bodies function as centrioles.
Scientists agree that dams devastate rivers.
Lung cancer for most is the consequence of smoking.
One example of an annelid has how many hearts?
What are most algae?
Where are global marine ecosystems found?
Most mollusks have shells.
Famines are extreme shortages of food that cause people to die of starvation.
Many species dig burrows in the ground.
What responds to daily and seasonal cycles and to disease?
Wheels reduce friction with the floor to help cars move.
Incineration is harmful to the environment, it pollutes.
What enters ecosystems?
What season is it when a hemisphere receives more direct sunlight?
If the moss was completely dried then it is dead.
In what form do organisms use lipids?
What protects things from freezing in cold weather?
what causes an object to lose energy?
How many types of introns are there?
What have specialized reproductive organs?
Potassium carbonate is a valuable nutrient for plants.
trees can be dispersed by
What do bats do with seeds?
Reproduction A courtship usually preceeds the actual mating.
Thunder, however, is more than a simple, loud explosive sound following a lightning bolt.
What do plants do during the day?
What happens to an animal's bodily water when they release water to regulate body temperature?
what have special excretory structures sometimes?
Immunization records with all required shots.
What can't cells survive without?
For example, in salt water, salt is the solute and water is the solvent.
a light bulb requires electrical energy to produce light
What does potassium do for an animal?
Vibration can be a cause of noise and can lead to wear and fatigue of parts.
What can have special excretory structures?
what have motility?
What is the result of imperfect passing of heat through a metal, on that metal?
What may be caused by an infection or injury of the organs used to breathe air?
Sound waves are compressional waves.
Water vapor cooling causes that water vapor to do what?
H A habitat is the kind of environment in which a certain organism normally lives.
When do plants grow the most?
what can detect sound?
Aggression is the drive, the adrenaline, the power.
When a doorbell rings, what part of the body vibrates?
Many insects communicate with sounds.
What type of energy generated by the bulbs is wasted?
Plants are complex organisms.
What does an animal require to grow and heal?
An insect has 6 legs and a head, thorax and abdomen.
Starfish, sea urchins and sea cucumbers lack a what?
What is something that is important for every animal's survival?
Insulin deficiency or a non-responsiveness to insulin is the cause of Diabetes.
Bomb cyclones are intense storms, often hybrid storms.
Sun emits light energy.
What gets food by eating other living things?
genes that promote division do so with what?
Reducing paper production would directly help stop what international problem?
Upon further cooling to 32 degrees Fahrenheit, water expands as it turns to ice.
What do birds secrete to attract a mate?
Fishing is possible in the fresh water pond.
Ultraviolet light can cause what?
Coral is calcium carbonate with a trade of carotene.
What causes a refraction of light?
Land degradation causes what effects on the enviroment?
What is a form of mechanical weathering?
Aerosols are tiny particles suspended in the air.
How does vegetation give animals security?
what has its soil and mud changed by extreme heat over long periods of time?
Water acts as the solvent and the dissolved substances act as the solutes.
Vinegar is dilute acetic acid.
Echidnas are monotremes, or egg laying mammals.
What usually has a positive impact on an ecosystem's food chain?
How do you increase the burn rate?
an animal requires nutrients to grow and heal
Fifty to 100 homes are either flooded or in danger of flooding.
Lets start our discussion of the Moon's phases with the New Moon phase.
Wind is a movement of air, and air is invisible.
Where does the energy to evaporate perspiration come from?
What requires great amounts of water to survive?
Which of the following can release harmful substances into the environment?
What releases energy plants need to grow?
What has a positive impact on where something lives?
Bacteria are microorganisms that exist everywhere.
All organisms excrete wastes.
When sweat comes in contact with the skin it is cooled as the sweat evaporates.
Mock fights also teach animals to interact with others of their species.
what has a negative impact on the ecosystem when cut down?
the support structure of a plant may store what?
DNA condenses to form chromosomes.
Most seeds sink in water.
what does uneven heating of Earth's surface cause?
What is critical?
What causes something to move?
What is one consequence of soil loss?
Mammals have hair and fur.
For mating, communication is between individuals of the same organism.
What may cause fighting within a species?
Animals which are consumers constitute higher trophic levels.
After all, seals are mammals just as humans are mammals.
what is increased to cause something to change from a solid into a liquid?
Insulin is a hormone that helps cells absorb sugar from the blood.
Earth tilted on its rotating axis causes what which affects all plants and animals?
What is plasma made up of?
What helps insulate toes?
By contrast, coastal waters rich in phytoplankton are green.
bacteria in soil converts atmospheric nitrogen into a form usable by what?
Bacteria are capable of growth on fatty acids and lipids.
Gravity is created by the mass of a planet, star or other celestial body.
If a single base is altered, a point mutation is generated.
Metals are extremely versatile materials.
What do outdoor plants require to survive?
what do yeast lack?
In what are proteins made?
Temperature is the relative degree of heat or cold.
Yeast is a living, microscopic fungus.
Nematodes are millimeter-sized roundworms.
Proteins are transported to and from the ER via vesicles to the Golgi.
What happens when a sperm enters an egg?
Humans depend upon the life-support systems provided by the oceans.
Absorption of nitrogen by plants is part of the nitrogen cycle .
What can a producer grow down into the soil in order to absorb minerals and water?
what is cytokinesis the final stage of?
What animals have a backbone?
Molecules vibrating can cause 
What decreases when the density of an object increases?
Coastal waters teem with life.
Pathogens are simply a variety of diseases which kill insects.
Scientists agree that HIV causes Aids.
How do you reduce pollution?
Shivering occurs when many muscles contract a little bit all at once.
Some plants also store water in their trunks and stems.
What product is likely to contain solvents that are harmful to living things?
What can result in offspring?
Sea stars use hundreds of tube feet.
What is the surface of a beach formed by?
To prevent bacterial food poisoning, the basic rule is to keep hot foods hot and cold foods cold.
Furthermore, the coating is an excellent electrical insulator.
Spring, summer, autumn, and winter are the seasons of the year.
The earliest of the five senses to develop gives you the ability to do what?
Many carcinogens are capable of causing gene mutations.
What is the last stage of aerobic transportation?
What is helpful for seeing in the dark?
Metals are conductors of electricity.
Freezing causes what?
Where do thunderstorms come from?
Exfoliation is a specific type of mechanical weathering that occurs in granite.
What can cause a landslide?
Prism A prism is a solid geometric shape.
what causes a solid to form?
Ants are of extreme importance in the insect world.
Fine droplets of water explode into steam during combustion.
what absorbs heat?
Parasites include lungworms and GI parasites.
Bees also collect pollen.
Mass The base unit of mass is the gram.
Weather and Seasons Weather and seasonal changes affect all plants and animals.
For exercise, Alan runs and rollerblades.
Ancathostega is one of the earliest tetrapods found, and by far the most complete.
Some precipitation that falls on land may fill what?
Cocaine is a stimulant and increases the user's heart rate and blood pressure.
what melts when heated?
What help prokaryotes to move?
Many corals secrete an exoskeleton that builds up to become a coral reef.
What is the average weather in Indonesia? 
Crustaceans are, like insects, arthropods.
Inherited mutations and inherited afflictions ARE radiation-inducible.
Biodiversity also increases the beauty of the planet.
Wood has to be cut to be used in a wood-burning stove.
What involves interaction with ribosomes?
What do sense organs help bullfrogs do?
Copper is a good conductor of electricity.
Phase changes are due to potential energy changes.
Plants live just about everywhere on Earth.
Thermal conductivity varies with sediment type.
Chemicals can be very toxic to permeable, amphibian skin.
Life Cycles Of Organisms Reproduction is a characteristic of all living systems.
Linked genes are inherited together.
what can change shape from smooth into compaction by physical force?
Why shouldn't you use a cell phone when driving?
Cognitive behavior is the behavior of understanding.
What does weathering do?
Examples include damage to man-made structures, ground failure and felt shaking.
Plants are grown where they are protected from what?
The first true tetrapods, or vertebrates with four limbs include
chlorophyll is used for absorbing light energy by plants
Mosses are nonvascular plants.
If there is no movement friction is zero.
What do organisms use to store energy?
what causes brain atrophy?
Cytokinesis is the final stage of cell division in what items?
What can regrow sections that they have lost?
Name one kind of a protein that some viruses have inside their phospholid envelope?
What do fires ignited with fuel convert energy into?
A toaster converts electrical energy into _ energy for toasting
Light is made up of particles called photons.
Microorganisms in food causes what?
What prevents erosion on dunes?
Sound travels through matter by vibration.
Courtship patterns vary with species.
what is used for heating buildings?
Negative charges repel negative charges and attract positive charges.
Water vapor condensing in clouds usually cause what?
Salinity is the measure of salts in the water.
Telomeres degrade as the cells divide and their shortening causes cell death.
If heat is conducted to an alloy, the alloy becomes:
What is used to start the flow of current in an electrical circuit?
a light bulb converts electrical energy into light energy when it is turned on
Diaphoresis is a fancy medical term for perspiration or sweating.
Some plants, such as poison ivy, are highly poisonous.
Fire requires oxygen, air.
What clusters around the heat of submarine volcanoes?
What compound or substance can frogs smell and taste?
What are synthesised by the key cells involved in the immune response?
Vertebrates are animals that have a backbone.
where does reproduction come from?
What can transform water from liquid to a gas?
What do high pressure systems make?
Why do dogs play?
What is produced by female flower parents in the ovaries?
Olfaction is the sense of smell and gustation is the sense of taste.
what does influenza cause?
Bikes are good for exercise and produce no pollution.
When a metal rod is warmed, the transfer of heat is by conduction.
sharpening an object causes that object to change shape
Seeds are dispersed by animals.
Limestone caves displaying stalactites.
What can cause harm?
a greenhouse is used to protect plants by keeping them warm
Toads and frogs are both amphibians.
Mollusks are the dominant invertebrate.
Many animals have developed ways of getting rid of extra heat by sweating or panting.
Bacteria are prokaryotes because they lack a clearly defined nucleus and sub-cellular organelles.
What are self-organising?
Animals have to have food, water, shelter to survive.
What causes contact between rocks?
Porcupine quills can be extraordinarily painful.
What makes food from CO and H 2? 
Monotremes require what for incubation?
From the bladder, urine leaves the body.
Biodiversity refers to the genetic variation of all life on Earth.
what does temperature change in matter?
Earth's tilt on its rotating axis causes what?
where to ethologists usually study how animals behave?
In the vacuum of space, there's no oxygen to burn.
All guitars produce sound through the mechanical vibration of strings.
Rotating vanes move air to do what to a computer?
Hydrothermal vents are powered by the heat of submarine volcanoes.
What can change to a solid from a liquid after adding heat energy?
Algae and many other aquatic plants are eaten by a variety of invertebrates and fish.
Ultraviolet Rays Ultraviolet rays are more powerful at elevation.
What do coiled structures made of DNA and proteins determine?
What compresses a soccer ball?
An aqueous solution has water as the solvent.
What is not caused by riding a bike?
Alcohol depresses the nervous system.
How should the soil be packed for the plants to grow healthy?
Smoking was negatively associated with prevalent Alzheimer's disease and dementia.
Animals adapt to cold temperatures.
Smoking is the inhalation and exhalation of the fumes of burning tobacco.
sulfur can cause what?
When habitat is healthy, many animals can compete for resources and still coexist.
Everything that lives eventually dies.
Cypress are seed-bearing plants or gymnosperms.
Chemical weapons are toxic chemicals.
Dead vegetation settles and becomes peat, a precursor of coal.
Roots have primary and secondary meristems for growth in length and width.
The hotter the water, the denser the fog will be.
Some cancers are inherited.
Something that can be described as what can only contract?
What happens when metal absorbs energy?
what uses their sense of smell to find a mate?
What does blood in the veins have a lot of?
a light bulb is used for seeing in the dark
Most _ feed on bacteria and algae that use sunlight to make food.
what makes water stick together?
Pipe organ Vibrating columns of air inside the pipes are the sound source.
some animals' fur grows thicker for staying warm in the winter
Secondary meristems make the stem or root grow larger in diameter.
Electricity flows when a circuit is complete.
Electron transport requires which of the following?
Landslides are often triggered by the shaking of earthquakes.
After all, rubber bands tend to snap when stretched too thin.
Consumers are heterotrophs that feed on tissues of other organisms.
During winter, the earth in the Northern Hemisphere is tilted away from the sun.
Pathogens have what impact on the body?
When the seasons change from the summer to the fall, what decreases?
Ice is a cold frozen liquid.
Different tissues are in turn grouped together to form functional units, called organs.
What defense mechanism does a porcupine use when intimidated?
Climate Indonesia's climate is definitely tropical.
What can insects detect with their feet?
Length The Base unit for length in the metric system is the meter .
Rainbows are formed when sunlight is refracted through raindrops.
Faulting of rock in Earth 's crust causes what?
Mammals are 
what sweep through water by animals?
Mutations in genes on the Y chromosome have been implicated in male genetic infertility.
What do batteries store?
Global wind patterns on the Earth are most influenced by
What is used for finding food by some animals?
Sexual reproduction is the combination of egg and sperm to form larvae.
Animals require warmth as encoded on what?
What are organisms on the ocean floor?
Microscopes are used to do what by magnifying objects?
Preservatives Preservatives are required to prevent spoilage.
Neurons are the structural and functional units of where what is critical?
What type of organism are fungi?
Lets Meet the HIV HIV is a new virus.
Flagella and cilia are similar in structure.
what is process is electron transport the final stage of?
When ice freezes, it releases heat energy into the environment.
what does propelling sperm from the epididymes do?
Soils are formed by breakdown of rock.
what falls making sunlight available to surrounding plants?
Viruses are enveloped by similar membranes.
what can happen from a disease in which cells divide out of control?
Scallops, oysters and clams are bivalves.
High pressure systems tend to bring calm weather.
The depletion of what results in higher levels of UV radiation reaching Earth?
starfish lack what kind of system?
Menopause occurs when menstruation stops occurring, usually in middle adulthood.
What causes the chemical disintigration of rocks.
Healthful Meals Eat a grain food at every meal .
What can people only survive a few days without?
Lakes and rivers are extremely complex ecosystems.
What usually has a negative impact on the environment?
Which animal would absorb the most visible light?
Ice is a solid, it's cold and it's hard.
Antigens are molecules that prompt the what of antibodies?
Thyroxine increases the rate of metabolism in cells throughout the what?
Earthquakes are caused by movement of the tectonic plates.
Earth Day celebrations are now held across the world.
What causes stars to produce light?
Dogs learn many social rules through play.
Some what enclosures convert electricity into light and heat energy?
What leads to less emissions and less pollution?
What is The Euphrates larger than?
Methane gas is a produced by rotting compost, trash, and human waste.
Turning on what will emit electromagnetic radiation?
Doing what can cause sound to be made in stringed instruments?
what can change shape from smooth into compacted by physical force?
How do halogen bulbs make heat?
What happens when rivers get too much rain?
What could cause lenses to fog?
Cows and sheep are examples of primary consumers.
Hormones are chemical messengers that control many body functions.
what do animals make with metabolism?
A measuring cup is used for measuring?
If a lion sweats what happens?
Healing requires what kind of sleep?
Aggression is behavior that is intended to cause harm or pain.
Wells and springs are supplied by groundwater.
What do lympophocytes use to convert oxygen and carbohydrates into carbon dioxide, water and energy?
Which bodily system excretes a substance commonly used in drug testing?
The average number of individuals per unit of area affect the balance of .
What shares a food source with fish?
Force can cause objects to do what, which is dangerous?
dendrochronologists do what with regards to tree age?
Spring, summer,autumn and winter are seasons.
What is converted into mechanical energy when bats fly?
What are vertebrates?
What is used to remove lead from the stomach?
what can cause cramps?
What causes low amounts of precipitation?
Potential energy is stationary, stored energy.
What does refracted light get divided into?
What are used for seeing by animals by sensing light?
Light enters the eye through an opening that is what to light and accommodation?
what makes soil stable?
An area is a rectangular region of cells.
Rain comes from clouds.
Another virus is the Human Papilloma virus.
What might a porcupine do if threatened by a fisher?
What can the moon revolving around the earth be used to calculate?
How does an autotroph get food?
Much of protein transport in a cell requires what?
An unsaturated solution is a dilute solution.
For example, For water, H 2 O is the molecular formula.
Alpaca fur is one of the softest furs in the world.
What varies in shape but are all microscopic?
What impact does looking at stars have?
Smooth muscles are involuntary muscles.
Thirst is used to make a cow realize that it needs to replenish its bodily what by the body?
What is formed from extreme heat and pressure?
What can get organic compounds from dead organisms?
Igneous rocks crystallize from magma from mantle.
Large volcanic eruptions can decrease (reduce)the earth's average temperature by (a) emitting particles into the stratosphere, thereby increasing the albedo.
Macroevolution occurs over geologic time above the level of the species.
What can cause an object's speed to slow?
And at 4,000 rpm, highway engine noise is still plenty loud.
What will happen if an object is at equilibrium?
Plasma cells are activated B cells that secrete what?
What do many corals secrete that build up to become a coral reef?
If the skin is painful, seek medical attention.
Photosynthesis occurs on the green surface of the cactus stem.
coal is used to produce electricity by burning in inherently modular what?
Flatworms belong to the phylum Platyhelminthes.
Mollusks reproduce sexually.
Lymphocytes are produced in the bone marrow.
Different receptors for heat and cold are probably present in the skin.
Plants are considered producers because they make their own food with the held of the sun.
Without light there is nothing to connect the eye to the object.
What gametophytes produce eggs inside the ovaries of flowers?
What living thing increases nutrients in soil?
What causes erosion of soil?
With emphysema, there is permanent lung damage in the alveoli.
With increasing cloud blocking the sun, temperatures drop considerably.
Food is an invitation for stray animals and neighborhood pets as well as wildlife.
Which of the following  has the most antioxidant benefits for the body?
Organisms in a marine biome must be be adapted to what in the water?
For example, traditional wisdom warns that eating sweet foods causes diabetes.
energy is used for heating a building by a heating system
What are some viruses enclosed by? 
When a creature moves chemical bonds are converted to what kind of energy?
What does a hemisphere receive less of when it is tilted away from the sun?
Egg laying mammals are called monotremes.
Water density is determined by temperature.
What lacks a centralized nervous system?
What happens when Earthworms ingest sediment and extract food particles?
What occurs when rocks are weathered mechanically?
Fog happens when the water vapor condenses into particles as air temperatures cool.
Coral reefs provide food and shelter to animals that require what?
What falls on the windward side of the mountain range?
Misalignment problems in gaskets can be increased by:
Green bean plantings continue to be planted.
Community health focuses on the health of populations or groups.
Earth 's tilt on its rotating axis causes _to change
What do mollusks contain?
Second to the storm surge are wind and rains.
Water controls the body's temperature.
What does muscles contracting provide?
Sporangia produce spores that develop into tiny, heart-shaped gametophytes.
Which has a unique water vascular system?
What causes cells to divide?
What pulls objects towards Earth?
What function can fur and feathers perform for some animals?
What has a negative impact on a species population size?
Where do streams often get H20?
plants grow healthier if they are protected from what
Air pollution can cause a decrease in what?
An overdose can cause vomiting.
Eventually, the drops fall out of the cloud in the form of rain.
All thresher sharks have tail fins nearly as long as the rest of the body.
What kind of climate do desert animals adjust to?
What does Earth's tilt on spinning axis change?
What can form when water vapor cools?
What happens worldwide as a part of climate change?`
Cancer is the second leading cause of death.
Basically, mitosis is the process by which a cell divides.
Connections can be made neuron to neuron or neuron to axon.
Puberty leads to sexual changes that travel throughout the body in what?
What can cause landslides?
Eventually the cancer kills.
Frogs breathe and absorb water through their skin, which is periodically shed.
Flower buds appear in the growing tip of the plant.
Which phenomena can severely damage soils and crops?
Metabolic reations generate heat.
Nucleotide sequences are translated according to the universal genetic code.
Like the platypus, an echidna is an egg laying mammal.
What is a unit that produces kWh?
Pathogens are germs that cause disease.
What causes edema?
Wind erosion is dominant.
To replenish body fluids, drink adequate amounts of water or a non-caffeinated beverage.
How does water turn to ice?
What is one thing most single-celled organisms have in common?
Smoothed, grooved and polished rocks are produced by glacial erosion.
What does sugar turn into to create ethanol?
What provides protection for soft tissues and internal organs?
What may become unbalanced if the rate of breathing is too fast or too slow?
heating salt water causes the water to evaporate while the salt remains
Seeds are probably dispersed by animals.
What changes rock into gneiss?
animals in the Phylum Porifera are a source of what for many species of fish
Exercise is critical to bone health.
boiling is changing from a liquid to a gas by adding what?
What process provides one substance transported by the blood?
What powers most automobiles? 
Sand can be formed by which process?
Ingredients: Habanero Peppers, Vinegar, Salt, Cider Vinegar.
Marine species live mainly in waters which are very rich in what
Plant diseases cause by bacteria.
While pasta is cooking, warm the oil over medium heat in a large skillet.
phase changes do not change
Human mating behavior also involves some competition.
Something that converts heat energy to mechanical energy is categorized by what scale?
Sexual reproduction requires both male and female gametes.
An obvious sign of mature logs is the appearance of mushrooms.
What can be caused by wind erosion?
where does a range of reproductive systems occur?
What is created when sediment mixes with dead algae?
Energy from the sun keeps the earth warm, enables plants to grow.
What can startle animals?
Coal burning can cause air pollution and generate carcinogens.
Heat and temperature are the same thing.
Cancer is an uncontrolled cell division.
Muscles can only contract and relax.
when a hemisphere is tilted towards the sun , that hemisphere receives more direct sunlight
Liquids freeze when they change to the solid state.
Bark on mature trees runs 6 to 12 inches thick, insulating the tree against fire damage.
Hair cells are also a type of skin cell.
Cancer cells divide more often than normal cells, and grow out of control.
Moles eat earthworms.
Some examples of invertebrates are arthropods.
Antibodies immobilize and destroy their specific antigens.
What can the sun create more quickly by adding heat?
when a circuit is working properly, what runs through that circuit?
Rain is assumed to occur as direct runoff.
Vomiting is a reflex controlled by a vomiting center in the brain.
What cause mutations in DNA?
Which of these trees seasonally sheds its leaves?
What help assemble the proteins?
Ethanol is produced by alcoholic fermentation of the glucose in corn or other plants.
Fully cooking oysters kills the bacteria.
For one, animal fur becomes thicker and more abundant during the winter months.
Being buried under soil and mud changes what into coal in wetlands over time?
What can produce eggs inside ovaries of flowers?
RNA RNA, or ribonucleic acid, is a constituent of all living cells and many viruses.
Producers that are adapted to very dry environments are called what?
Ribosomes and other organelles begin to duplicate .
Sperms have flagella.
Rocks on the streambed are subrounded and fairly smooth.
What constructs an exoskeleton using calcium carbonate?
What might a loud noise in the woods make an animal do?
What wets the skin, and when it evaporates, it cools the body?
Males produce 'pheromones' to attract females.
Most what in a gene pool are beneficial to organisms?
What are nonphotosynthetic?
Meiosis is the type of cell division that produces:
What produces both eggs and sperm?
touch can be used for detecting texture
products made from what are a big contributor to landfill waste
Lupron usually brings on 
Nuclear fission is the only method currently used by nuclear plants to generate electricity.
what is energy passed up from to higher trophic levels?
Changing from liquid to gas by adding heat energy occurs during what?
Large lobsters are found here scavenging the ocean floor.
Intrusive igneous rocks account for sections of higher elevation.
Most metallic objects are manufactured from alloys.
a stem is used to store water by some plants
Oil is formed by layers of sediment pushing down on what?
Unit for mass is the kilogram .
what grow away from a light source?
The flowering of soybeans is activated by the length of daylight hours.
Clouds do create rain.
what has good eyesight and a keen sense of smell?
With the exception of allergies, what may cause a person to seek medical attention?
Biodiversity increases the productivity and stability of what?
To keep cut flowers lasting longer, use a commercial florist preservative such as Floralife.
What is very deadly?
What can bacteria cause people to do?
Microbes are also called bacteria or microorganisms.
Food consists of organic molecules that store heat where?
Where is water sometimes stored in a tree or plant?
When a mammal's habitat is destructed, what does it do?
Within the body are the stomach and reproductive organs.
What occurs in water as the moon revolves around Earth?
Cells are the units of function in living things.
what have more complex nervous systems
What does a stove use to cook?
Meaningful tidal current information on the tidal inlets of New Jersey is relatively scarce.
What do animals use ingestion for?
What propagates mangoes?
a plant requires sunlight to store what
What can reproduce asexually?
What can cause an aneurysm?
E.Coli poisoning can come from what?
what causes volcanic eruptions?
doing what with trees has a positive impact on habitats
What causes high pressure systems?
What is carried in birds feathers?
Fungi are the only organisms that can decompose dead what?
what needs contact to smooth over long periods of time?
What lacks respiratory and excretory systems?
What does a lack of humidity cause?
Nervous A reptile has a brain and nervous system.
Copper is a very ductile metal.
Steroid hormones are the longest acting hormones.
Mutations are changes in genetic information.
Any fuel that is incompletely burned produces carbon monoxide, a colorless, odorless gas.
Memory cells persist in the circulation for decades.
Where can you find marine biomes?
what uses a greenhouse to be protected from the cold?
Acid rain is harmful rain.
Gardening chemicals and painting supplies are easy to spill and splash.
The oxygen in the air we breathe is produced by plants.
What is  found naturally in the air and soil, and in living organisms?
Evaporation can be used for separating a solute from
Ozone depletion increases the risk of
Most protists have motility.
how do animals keep cool?
Mental illness is a disease.
What do echinoderms use to communicate?
How do platypus lay eggs?
Adult genotypes reflect the genes they contribute to the gene pool.
an animal requires what by the body for survival
what conserves body heat with their hair or fur?
drought is when amount of precipitation decreases
what is forced against the seed coat to cause the root to emerge from a seed?
DNA is found in chromosomes.
Erosion is a substantial contributor to deterioration of soil quality.
And, of course, the Sun is a star.
Stimulants can cause overheating and dehydration.
Earthworms are terrific for plants and soil.
Making cardboard from what has a positive impact on the environment?
what effects the colligative properties of solids
what requires cutting down trees?
what makes the ground shake?
Male gametes are called sperm.
Every workout is as much an intellectual exercise as a physical exercise.
Often, the soil consists of mats of very acidic, semi-decayed vegetation, such as peat.
Destruction of Trees is taking place, pollution of air is the Result of cutting trees with pace.
Acid rain comes from polluted clouds.
Due to changes in global wind patterns, some geographical areas can evolve into deserts.
Fishers are predators that can eat porcupines.
where does the movement of an air mass cause local weather changes?
What has a more complex nervous system?
what uses play to learn how to behave?
Like the platypus, it is an egg laying mammal.
Most of the flatworms are parasitic, although the Turbellaria are free-living in fresh water.
Lobsters have special structures for:
what might competition lead to?
Meat is a nutrient-dense food.
Cells just vary in their forms and functions.
what do moon phases depend on?
Often the children are also infected with the virus.
Vertebrates have the most defined and developed nervous system.
Plants shed their leaves in what season each year?
What causes the chemical disintegration of rocks?
what have regions that do not code for proteins?
Also, nematoda and rotifera are important groups contributing to soils.
Protonemas develop into what?
Coral Reefs Coral reefs are widely distributed in warm shallow waters.
The mass of a planet causes the pulling force that does what?
Sporangia produce spores that are what?
Coral reefs are nurseries of the ocean.
What does an object made of stainless steel have the properties of?
Crocodiles, snakes, and lizards are all types of reptiles.
what does a prism form?
Bees are important pollinators.
Genes are made of DNA, the substrate of hereditary information.
Climate is the average of things like what in an area over a long period of time
Finally, the fluid in the nephron reaches a collecting duct .
moving people across bodies of waters requires avoiding what
Sustained contraction of large muscles in a body leads to what?
Crop productivity does what during a drought?
what can behaviors be learned through?
Water Water in the area's natural water bodies is drinkable as such.
What season is it when the hemisphere is aimed at the sun?
Opportunistic infections, such as Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, begin to occur.
How can you extend the shelf life of food?
Where are coral reefs found?
What mostly has a negative effect on the environment?
It also increases genetic diversity that allows evolution to continue.
Amphibians are the first true tetrapods, or vertebrates with four limbs.
Most plants grow from seeds.
Insectivorous birds are the largest group of migrants.
How do snails reproduce?
what causes liquid to form?
What takes in food by eating producers or other living things?
What appliance can keep food good a long time?
What can you use in wiring to produce current? 
Chondroblasts lead to to what?
Another part of the inner ear is used for balance.
Inside each sporangia there are hundreds of spores.
Evolution is a change in the genetic traits of living things over what?
When water goes through the cold induced phase change to produce ice, the ice expands.
Fourty percent of biomass is carbon.
Seed production is good, and propagation is by seeding.
Cancer is a disease of aging.
what is a central nervous system stimulant?
Amphetamines stimulate the central nervous system.
sweat is used for adjusting to hot temperatures by some animals
Aeration breaks up the soil and allows water to penetrate.
what may leave an environment to find food and water if the amount available decreases?
What are genes contained in?
Mammals are vertebrates with fur or hair.
If speed is increased, the uplift force is increased.
What has positive impacts on a person's health?
animals do what with sounds, chemicals or visual cues?
sex hormones are what in male and female bodies?
Genes are blueprints for the construction of proteins.
Light is electromagnetic radiation.
What happens to the heat energy during condensation.
Radiators are used to heat the building, The energy source is oil.
All life relies on a relatively narrow range of what?
What stops once menopause happens?
Roots grow in length and width from primary and secondary meristem.
Haploid cells multiply asexually through mitosis.
What vibrates the saddle?
Clean plants are healthy plants.
Bacteria are destroyed by cooking heat.
Prokaryotes lack regions that do not code for proteins, while this type of living being has them:
Opposites also hold each other in balance and exert mutual control.
what is added to propane to change it through the boiling process
Cancer is a disease in which cells what?
Most of the water on the planet is salt water in the oceans.
Echinoderms in the diorama include the crinoids and blastoids.
And, trees provide habitat for birds and animals.
Infections of the raw wound are common.
What is used for cooking by generating fire?
The most common areas affected by a disease in which cells divide out of control are what and breast
What process is needed to support a baby in the womb?
Erosion is loss of soil caused by rain and wind.
What is secreted by organisms like frogspawn to become a reef?
Frostbite is the actual freezing of tissue.
Sunlight beams down on the different types of algae.
how do organisms cool off?
What can decompose wood?
What is under the same family as worms?
what does gravity pull objects towards?
What can be used to keep warm?
transportation technology is used for moving people
DNA is short for Deoxyribonucleic Acid.
Rulers are used to measure length.
Sensory Nerve Endings are in involved in sensory reception.
What are broken down by water?
Some, such as the green algae, are plants.
Dew begins to evaporate when the temperature reaches the dew point.
Which animal has a circulatory system with a three-chambered heart?
what is fertilized to produce a diploid zygote?
cutting down trees has a negative impact on an ecosystem
Soil can be depleted of nutrients.
What is when water vapor moves from plants and falls to the earth's surface as rain and snow?
What occurs when many muscles contract a little bit all at once?
At what trophic level is a plant?
How do organisms grow and repair themselves?
How do children learn?
What vibrating can cause something received through the ears.
Ethologists usually study how what behaves in their habitats?
Reducing temperature changes what?
Cells are programmed to divide only a set number of times.
Gravity is what causes things to have weight.
Which of the following can conduct heat?
Athletes risk dehydration because of excessive sweat loss.
Most precipitation occurs as rainfall.
What can breathe with gills as larvae and with lungs as adults?
Yeast is a living organism.
Electrical circuits have fuses that blow.
Some good bacteria are in the soil and helps plants get vitamins to grow.
Legs define Tetrapods.
Why do animals eat stems?
Sedimentary Rocks One of the commonest sedimentary rocks is sandstone.
Dew is formed when water vapor is what?
what does the atmosphere do before turning into fog
Energy grows food and keeps people alive.
What genes promote the division of cells with mutation?
Mammalian kidneys form urine in nephrons.
A flower 's purpose is to produce what?
What requires light for photosynthesis?
Deforestation also disrupts the Carbon Cycle.
What do trees release during the day but not at night?
What does fuligo septica create?
An example is the uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel.
Carbon dioxide is controlled by the carbon cycle.
What is formed by a high-mass star collapses?
staying warm has a positive impact on an animal 's survival
What becomes something that is burned to generate heat?
Sweat is the result of excessive physical and emotional exertion.
Students take a field trip to an ecosystem to observe the homes of animals in natural habitats.
An abnormal endocrine gland is often blamed for producing obesity.
What causes a root to emerge from an acorn?
What is more complex in eukaryotes than prokaryotes?
What animal requires great amounts of what rain is to survive?
Organisms adapt to changes in their environment.
Melting occurs when ice is
What type of acid contains inherited instructions for proteins?
Habitat destruction from logging is also a major concern.
Bacteria and Viruses Bacteria and viruses can cause diseases.
Plants require sunlight for what?
Pesticides are chemical poisons.
Balance is important in skiing and balance is important in life.
Root growth and development are extremely important to plant growth.
what usually has its leaves change color in autumn?
wings are part of the exoskeleton and attached where?
What causes sunburns?
a toaster converts electrical energy into heat energy for toasting
What causes objects to be pulled down on a celestial body?
Sperm had to swim from male to female reproductive organs for fertilization.
What threat would cause a porcupine to extend its quills?
What does the pituitary do to other endocrine glands??
Saprolite is created when what interacts with wind over long periods of time?
What causes iron in asteroids to oxidize?
how can garnets be formed
the sun causes water to evaporate more quickly by adding heat
What happens to a orchid when a nearby tree falls?
An ant and a lobster are both arthropods.
What does a black item do?
Eating and drinking in the car is a major distraction.
Viruses are so small that they can be seen by what?
what has a negative impact on the respiratory system?
Invertebrates have no vertebrae or backbone.
electric devices require electrical energy to function
Crossing two living things with freckles will cause their what to have it also?
Properties are the characteristics of an object.
Genes are arranged in gene clusters.
Warm blooded animals have a constant body temperature.
Clearing of land can lead to erosion of soil into the river.
What is used for generating heat by burning?
Chemical splashing can cause what to humans?
What can trigger immune response?
An image is formed where by the ratio of light out to light in?
What body does the moon rotate around?
what excess does excretion remove from the body?
When chemical bonds are broken by animals the energy is released in the form of work and heat.
When the animal makes contact with the fence the circuit is complete.
High humidity interferes with evaporation of the sweat.
Ants are social insects living in colonies.
What does the mass of a planet cause things to have?
And new sediments such as clay and sand are being deposited by water.
What increases in habitats from the poles to the equator?
What does winter cause?
Electrical currents cause magnetic fields.
What can happen if an organism is dehydrated?
Insects and earthworms are very important in mixing and aerating the soil.
A doorbell converts electrical energy into what?
Chemical weathering causes iron in rock to combine with what?
What type of organism has an exoskeleton?
Heavy rains can cause erosion.
What causes habitats to change?
The what of vaporization changes a gas into a liquid by reducing heat energy?
What happens to an environment to cause extinction? 
Metal or aluminum trees are conductors of electricity.
Developers plan housing tracts and build the houses on paper.
what usually has a shell?
what forms tides?
Light seems to travel in rays or beams.
Bees are attracted to?
Uneven heating of the Earth's surface causes what to homes and businesses?
What decreases the melting point of water?
What are vascular plants that produce seeds in the form of cones?
What occurs when gametes fuse to form a diploid zygote?
Materials like glass and wood are electrical insulators and thermal insulators.
Result is animals carry seeds elsewhere, dispersing the plant.
Fatty acids are the most abundant source of stored energy in the body's cells.
What does incubation require??
Leaves absorb sunlight.
Plants help make oxygen for the air.
Where are mutations found?
Endospores are commonly found in soil and water.
What can most humans only survive a few days without?
what is biomass the total mass of?
sonar is used to find the location of an object
absorbing energy causes objects to heat
DNA DNA DNA is a person's genetic fingerprint.
What animal would be protected in a forest fire?
Rainbows form when raindrops refract sunlight.
When a gas condenses to form a liquid it absorbs heat.
How does water cause a valley to form?
If not managed properly, nutrients can be depleted on
During sexual reproduction genetic material is exchanged between pairs of genes.
Hurricanes A hurricane is a type of tropical cyclone.
What have a nervous system?
Fur or feathers help hold heat in, but some body heat always escapes.
Plants do what during the day but not during the night?
All cats are animals.
What can mutations lead to in which cells divide out of control?
Mammals conserve body heat with what that produce thickness and colors?
Coral reefs are formed from coral skeletons.
T cells- also known as T lymphocyte.
Touch is the ability to sense pressure.
Roses are beautiful flowers.
what do the second-largest invertebrate group have?
TSH, which is secreted by the pituitary gland, stimulates the thyroid gland to produce hormones.
What can convert chemical energy into kinetic energy
Immunology is the study of the immune system.
Most of the yard lamps are incandescent.
What is formed by erosion processing large rocks?
Sheep tend to favor the side of a mountain with more:
Seasons occur due to the tilt of the Earth's axis and the orbit of the Earth around the Sun.
Seasons are caused by the Earth's distance from the Sun changing.
Oxygen-enriched air is a fire hazard because the burning rate of combustible materials is increased.
Thyroid hormone regulates the body's metabolism.
Skin is a protective organ.
Chloroplasts Chloroplasts contain photosynthetic pigments.
Friction from the brake lining causes heat.
Some viruses can what?
What do humans add to their food?
How is the sensation of feeling heat and pressure on the skin transmitted?
Boiling is the very rapid conversion of a liquid into vapor by the violent evolution of bubbles.
what can some viruses cause?
what do mirrors reflect?
What do LEDs convert into light?
All daylight contains a large UV component.
Grapevines are plants that shed their leaves
What can change the structure of DNA?
What do earthworms do to soil?
What might parents pass on to their offspring?
Fruit browning is believed to be a process of early cell aging and death.
germs that cause people to get sick contain what but not much else?
Interstellar space contains a plasma.
an animal requires energy to move
An automobile engine transforms chemical energy into what?
Wings are part of the exoskeleton attached to what?
Humans see with our eyes.
breaking apart rocks can cause debris
if an object is black then that object absorbs all visible light
What is essential for cellular respiration for all aerobic organisms.
What causes skin to become red and painful to the touch?
Macroevolution most likely occurs over what period of time?
what results does exposure to tobacco smoke have?
What use pheromones to communicate with each other?
What organs do both fishes and reptiles have?
What do flourescent bulbs do?
Which chemical added to water prevents illnesses? 
hydropower requires damming a river
Petals attract animals such as bees to what part of a producer?
storms cause bodies of water to increase amount of water they contain
Forest environments collapse.
Manatees are slow moving animals.
How does Zinc usually leave the body?
Reproduction is the process by which living things give rise to offspring.
With specific types of gene damage, the cell starts dividing out of control, forming a tumor.
What uses chemicals in urine to mark their territory?
what is required for survival?
What is impacted from harming a kind of animal?
All lengths shown are in inches.
Mushrooms are fleshy fungi that reproduce through sexual matings of spores.
Fossils are found in places that were previously covered in what?
How many times can cells split into parts?
what requires great amounts of water to survive?
Most of the electricity in the United States is produced by burning coal.
Water, for example, is a liquid.
what is a measuring cup used for measuring?
In their quest for reproduction, salamanders are assisted by their what?
What is the genetic code in mRNA that can be translated?
Cells secrete acids and bases to maintain the proper pH for enzymes to work.
Like other ants, the fire ant is a social insect.
Electricity can be converted in to light using light bulbs, and even heat by using heating coils.
Plant adds nitrogen to the soil.
What kicks in after a certain number of divisions?
Male dogs use_  in urine to mark their territory.
what increases genetic diversity?
Animals adapted to living within certain salinity ranges require great amounts of what to survive?
If _ of an animal are found in a place then that animal used to live in that place
Insulation serves to both prevent heat loss in the winter and heat gain in the summer.
What happens when soda cans conduct heat?
what type of trees have woody trunks?
What is available when the immune system is not working properly?
Rhizobial bacteria convert atmospheric nitrogen into nitrate fertilizers in a form usable by plants.
When substances react with one another the sharing or transfer of what occurs?
Plants have specialized tissues for what?
Heat is kinetic energy.
People are individuals, and each person has different needs.
What increases genetic diversity?
What make the stem or root grow larger in diameter?
Limestone is the rock formed by calcite.
looking at bright objects has a negative impact on the eyes
Kinetic energy comes from heat.
Autumn is a beautiful season.
When do moose begin to attract mates?
what is formed by deposition of sediment at the mouth of a river?
What causes a planet's seasons?
Cooking kills the microorganisms.
And the fourth river is the Great River, the river Euphrates.
The tilt of the Earth's rotational axis can lead to
rocks interacting with wind can dramatically alter what?
what can develop into new haploid individuals without being fertilized?
Animals use what to improve chances of surviving?
Which tree's leaves change color in autumn
What causes the growth of a living organism?
Mechanical energy can be changed to electrical energy.
what causes deposition?
DNA is the stuff of life.
What can be measured from the equator to the poles
Cells that divide uncontrollably may form _.
Eggs, the female sex cells, are produced in ovules, which are inside the ovary.
Cabbages are cooler than cucumbers.
How do eukaryotes reproduce?
Infected birds spread the bacteria in their droppings.
Organelles involved in cell division come in what groups?
Water was tested for the presence of disease-causing microbes.
Properly and frequently washing hands when handling food helps eliminate bacteria.
A battery can convert chemical energy so that it can turn on what?
Animals such as butterflies, honeybees, wasps, moths, and mice can aid in pollinating plants.
Different tissues then combine to form specialised organs .
What can help prevent food from spoiling? 
Devices require  to function
Cells are the fundamental units of life.
having what increases the potential to produce more offspring than the environment can support?
corals use what to communicate with each other
Balance is a proprioceptive function.
Chloroplasts are the structures which manufacture chlorophyll.
Dozens of non-wood fibers are pulped for paper around the world.
What does Earth's tilt on its rotating axis cause?
Fe is the periodic symbol for Iron.
What has insulation that also protects the body?
How has the greenhouse effect changed in the last decade?
magnetism can cause objects to repel each other
why do fevers dehydrate?
Living things interacting get energy from what?
Blood is a liquid organ.
An animal hibernating is slowly consuming 
Thyroid hormones are produced by the thyroid gland.
Rocks that are formed by deposition are then what to form a new generation
What gives rise to offspring?
Thyroid hormones increase the rate of metabolism in cells throughout the body.
Lake trout season opens in Lake Huron and Lake Michigan, excluding the refuges.
What typically travel long distances?
What is adapted to very dry environments?
What requires a warm body temperature for survival?
Cats are Mammals that Shed Dogs are Mammals that Wag their tails.
Smaller rocks come from the breakage and weathering of bedrock and larger rocks.
What can be used for survival in the desert?
deficiency of a hormone that does what causes diabetes?
What contain the genetic information for life but not much else?
What contains deoxyribonucleic acid but not much else.
what does a river deposit into flood plains when it floods?
pollination requires pollinators
antigens are found on cancer cells and the cells of transplanted what?
what are some sperm?
Friction Rubbing an object on another object can produce friction.
Dehydration is the loss of total body water.
Gasoline is a mix of hundreds of chemicals.
Carbon monoxide is a gas produced by furnaces and other devices that burn fuel.
What can renewable energy be used for?
Leeches clean away the dead or infected tissue.
All plants require sunlight, carbon dioxide, and water for photosynthesis.
Solar energy is the energy in the sun's rays.
Another name for fat is lipid .
How can you generate heat?
Cell damage also occurs during ageing.
What happens to ice in water?
Chemical bonds form when substances react with one another.
Creating wood-free paper does not require doing what?
What determines the climate to change?
Ecotourism, on the other hand, can help to conserve biodiversity.
what feed on dead organisms?
the total mass of organisms at a trophic level can be burned in an incinerator to what?
What does breathing help balance acidity levels?
Droplets of water are formed when water vapor does what over night?
what do earthquakes affect?
Hard corals build by secreting calcium carbonate skeletons.
What helps soil breathe?
What kind of environmental changes can result from climate change?
Cells lacking membrane-bound organelles are prokaryotic, and bacteria are prokaryotes.
Organisms that live in marine biomes must be adapted to what?
Plant cell walls are composed primarily of lignin and cellulose.
All complex living creatures, are organized by a nervous system .
Ribosomes consist of ribosomal RNA and proteins.
Harm to the ecosystem can come from
An electrical conductor is required for the operation of:
What collects tiny grains that are the male gametes of plants?
What happens when water reaches zero degrees Celsius? 
Changes in what can cause potential energy changes?
breathing is when a gill converts from oxygen in water into oxygen in blood
What changes as the earth's axis moves?
When the Earth's northern hemisphere is tilted towards the Sun, it is summer.
What is fourty percent of the total mass of organisms at a trophic level?
Muscle size comes from lifting heavy weights.
How many genes are needed for the ability to sense pressure?
Granite is an example of an igneous rock .
What type of energy do filaments use to illuminate?
Depressions can be associated with what?
if a plant requires less water then that plant will survive in a drought
Gas is the source of energy for heating water and for the stove.
What happens inside the single egg embedded inside the prothallus 
Carbon monoxide can kill.
Bikes are to be parked in the bicycle area and locked securely.
Which surface can food be cooked on?
Airplanes Air travel is the quickest way to travel and is probably best for long distances.
What is excreted through the urinary system?
Bottleneck effect occurs when a population suddenly gets much smaller.
What is one result of reducing the heat energy of body parts?
What can infection cause in bodily tissues?
What happens when an animal perspires?
FRUITS Type of plant.
Large cyclonic systems influence the wind patterns of the middle latitudes.
microorganisms can cause infections
Plant responses to water stress.
Terrestrial biome distribution is largely influenced by temperature and precipitation.
An object can be anything, a sphere, a pyramid, a car tire, or an elaphant.
Living beings in marine biomes must be adapted to what in the water?
What phase does a liquid take when heated sufficiently?
Where do female gametophytes produce eggs?
What process can help heat up a stove?
Coral reefs are limestone formations composed of tiny sea organisms and their remains.
Retains heat in cold weather, reflects exterior heat in warm weather.
Life is responsible for oxygen in the atmosphere.
Breathing gets oxygen into the body, but aerobic respiration occurs at the cellular level.
When gardening what can be depleted of nutrients?
Diabetes is caused by a lack of insulin.
What prevent heat loss from the body after losing hair?
what do ants use to communicate?
An exoskeleton is an external framework.
All crows are birds.
Common bacterial pneumonia can be caused by Streptococcus pneumonia or Klebsiella pneumonia .
what are arthropods the largest phylum of?
Reptiles are a class of tetrapod vertebrates that produce amniotic eggs.
heat can change the state of matter
Electrical energy is converted into light energy in the headlights.
Molecules are the building blocks of a cell.
Rivers are usually larger than what
What do animals do when forest roads add to the erosion of their home?
What can decompose a bow?
What cannot absorb light energy?
What can determine the volume of water?
Cranberries cause what environmental effect?
people can survive only a few days without what
Stoves Stoves can be a source of many accidents in the kitchen.
what can be used to produce electricity?
If an object is made of a metal, then that object has the properties of what?
what does uneven heating of the Earth's surface cause?
Parents can pass on many genes, including those for:
HIV infects and destroys helper T cells.
What happens when liquids are heated?
What bodies of water may start with runoff?
Perception of sound Sound is a wave.
Cancer genes are
A solution is formed by _ being dissolved in solvents.
What can help lower glucose levels in the blood?
Where do fungi get their food?
Inner planets, such as Venus are subject to the seering heat of the sun.
Arteries carry blood away from our heart.
a blazingly high-tech method can be used to kill existing microorganisms in what?
Protists are one celled organisms.
Pacinian corpuscles are found mainly in the _.
what does water vapor condensing in clouds cause?
Some strange life forms have an envelope of what?
gills are used for breathing water by aquatic animals
All ViroMed cells are passaged a limited number of times.
Sludge composts are also fairly high in nutrients.
What do guitar strings do?
Roundworms reproduce by combining an egg and sperm to form what?
Pheromones are insect hormones.
what happens if a neutral atom loses an electron?
Plants respond to what to disrupt plant disease?
Mating is generally preceded by courtship.
Plants are capable of making:
Dormancy is an adaptation that improves the chances of surviving until warm temperatures return.
If the wind is less, then most kites have problems flying.
what can cause fatigue?
Cancer is also caused by a mutation.
Epiphytes are plants that live on other plants.
Arctic animals have layers of fat and thick coats of fur to keep warm in the frigid Arctic climate.
Saltwater excretion reduces what?
What are formed by erosion?
Cells reproduce asexually, by dividing.
When is coal burning _ is given off
What can cause erosion of soil?
what does alcohol interfere with?
Protists are single celled organisms containing organelles.
What is used as energy by most of the organisms on Earth
Spring and Fall are transitional seasons.
Penguins are a type of birds.
what has female gametophytes that produce eggs inside the ovaries?
Bats Bats are mammals with wings.
What is the process by which organisms give rise to their young?
Plastic slows the transfer of what?
What can create carcinogens?
Lack of which of the following can hinder the break down of food in the body?
Heating an egg can make it what?
Latent heat causes an object to change state.
How long can antibodies protect the body?
Tulips perform best in a sandy, organically enriched soil.
Insects have chemical receptors on their antennae, legs or feet.
a sequence of characters may start with runoff or what seeping out of a spring?
How does a woman obtain her egg for reproduction?
Plucked stringed instruments are the harp, guitar, and harpsichord.
A method of heating a building might be what?
Kids see the underground root systems of trees and then an aerial view of plants in the city.
What was more dense than fluid?
Animals use both ears to localize sound.
What does the sun provide to make steam?
Mainly marine, some crabs live in fresh water or on land.
Gases from what causes precipitation where the pH is 5.7 or lower?
What that can swim have a centralized nervous system with a brain?
Organisms that live in marine biomes must be adapted to most of the what on the planet?
Different environments Life is a changing phenomenon.
planting trees has a positive impact on an ecosystem
Newsprint is recycled into new paper, cardboard, and insulating material.
Cross-pollination increases what?
Why are marine fossils in the interior of a continent?
Atoms make up many things, like what?
A solar panel converts what into electricity?
A rubber band snapping can cause the particles to do what?
How can Earth's crust shatter glass windows for miles?
What is converted into light by burning beech wood?
What would wind going through a whistle cause?
What has a positive impact on a plant's roots' growth?
Animals are adapted for conditions where they live.
what are endothermic tetrapod vertebrates?
Doing what to plants has a negative impact on the ecosystem?
What rate does weathering happen?
What causes erosion?
What feature of many cacti help them survive in dry environments?
All mollusks come from eggs.
What are some mountains caused by?
Cell phones can cause people to do what?
a balance is used for measuring mass of an object
Animals can communicate with sounds, chemicals, or visual cues.
Everybody has a cell phone.
Plants release oxygen during the day and alter their position to what?
Fins nearly as long as what can be used to move through water?
What live just about everywhere on Earth?
What do the average number of individuals per unit of area or volume affect?
Extreme heat and pressure change rock into
Cranberry flowers require bee visitation for pollination.
How do you keep a cup hot?
what happens when sweat wets the skin?
Climate Forests stabilize climate.
One classic example is the 4.1L Cadillac engine.
Tree rings record the seasons.
An example of water vapor is steam.
What might fall on land may soak into the ground, becoming groundwater?
What could chemical splashing harm?
Autotrophs are the base of the food chain .
Electrical energy ultimately becomes heat energy.
What is proprioception part of?
The important component in air is the oxygen.
Daffodils are very nice flowers.
If sunlight is passed through a prism, a rainbow is produced.
Haploid plants produce gametes.
What does smoking harm?
what responds to daily and seasonal cycles and to disease?
cranberry harvests require the presence of what
All health starts in the stomach with digestion.
Trophic level refers to the organisms position in the food chain.
In summer the northern hemisphere is tilted toward the sun and in winter the Earth is tilted away.
Leaves are covered with a waxy layer, the cuticle , which prevents water loss.
All parasites are harmful to their host, but some are beneficial to humans.
Polyps are benign growths in the colon.
Diploid zygote forms multicellular embryo in venter.
What does bamboo do to grow?
What can kinetic energy be converted into?
Which can breath in the water?
What can happen if water vapor's heat energy is reduced?
Proteins are assembled on floating ribosomes.
An organism is a living thing or something that was once alive.
Without enough oxygen cell respiration is reduced, leaving a person tired and lacking in energy.
What do muscles rely on for sugar?
Animals can be classified into mammals, reptiles, birds.
What does compressed genetic material form?
Windmills are machines operated by windpower.
Major erosion of beaches occurs.
Deltaic deposits are an accumulation of sediment deposited at the mouth of a river.
Blowing air into what causes air to move inside it?
Controlling development controls human disturbances of the river bank and its watershed that can increase erosion, disturb animal habitat and consequently, impair water quality.
Ice crystals can resist what?
what have a negative impact on the environment
Humans meet some needs and wants by using resources found in the natural environment.
what have jointed segmented exoskeletons?
Lawns eat nitrogen.
Igneous rocks are formed by the solidification of magma.
What is true about some butterflies?
Another form of aggressive behavior is the verbal outburst.
By it's nature, a vibration is a frequency wave .
Proteins are assembled on small floating what?
Warm, still, shallow waters are preferred.
Protective, supportive environments are used by animals against what?
What kind of animal is classified as having a vertebrae?
What can sense pressure?
Vision begins with sight.
Sucrose attracts sperm to the what for fertilization?
Puppies as well as kittens are curious animals.
Creating wood-free paper can avoid what process?
what does a breathing mask keep harmful particles from entering?
Incandescents convert electricity into light and what
Plasma is more common in stars, because making plasma requires high temperatures.
Toasters convert what into an energy that can also light and cook?
If it is too cold, certain plants will freeze and die.
Neurotransmitters are released from vesicles.
insulated material can be used for keeping warm
What divides into two parts to reproduce?
What does not spoil the environment?
scraping oneself on a contaminated object may cause infection
What absorbs sunlight? 
what is formed by refraction of light by separating light into all different colors?
Where is water likely to form beads?
unequal heating of Earth 's surface by the Sun causes a distortion of the what?
Invertebrates are animals who lack a backbone or spinal column.
Ice is a good thermal insulator.
what does a high pressure system cause?
Sodium chloride or common salt is the chemical compound NaCl .
Dirt is really misplaced soil.
Climate too dry, making the environment arid and inhospitable.
Halogen light bulbs generate heat.
what converts fuel into light and heat energy 
Black objects are the best heat absorbers.
Gene flow increases genetic variation within a population.
What do some flowers use to store most of their water?
Sweat cools the body when it
What causes harm to living things?
what are formed by carbonic acid in groundwater seeping through rock and dissolving limestone?
condensing means changing from a gas into a liquid by reducing what?
What does a greenhouse protect flowers from?
Meristems are self-organising.
what are extremely important biomes?
Lightening is attracted to metal objects.
If magma solidifies within the crust, the rock is called an intrusive igneous rock.
What things have positive impact on plants?
What can vibrating matter cause?
What can have a positive impact on the environment?
Anything that can trigger an immune response is called an antigen.
What can kill their host?
Viruses include the Tobacco Mosaic Virus.
Healing and cell regeneration follows.
If a female sperm fertilizes the egg, the result is a baby girl.
Evaporation is the change of liquid water to a vapor.
What occur over geologic time above the level of the species?
smoking tobacco decreases stamina
Origami figures are paper folding art projects.
And tumor cell means that it's an abnormal cell.
What can use energy in order to make food for itself and others?
What does blowing into a whistle do?
What does not release particles?
What group of animals do chordates belong to?
What is emitted light used for ?
Bacteria is this type of microorganism.
How do behaviors that improve fitness increase?
What does weight lifting do?
Many fungi decompose dead organic matter such as leaves, wood, feces, etc.
what reproduces to give rise to offspring?
What is used by organisms to store energy?
For sedimentary rock, fossils provide the relative age of deposition.
Roundworms make up the phylum Nematoda.
Dolphins and whales are mammals.
Sweet fruit like apples are eaten by animals that disperse the undigested seeds.
Clouds are made of water vapor.
Wind can cause?
Plasma Defined Plasma Defined A plasma is an ionized gas.
pesticides can cause pollution
Evolution Change through time.
How can heat be kept?
Micro-evolution demonstrates the ability of organisms to adapt to their environment.
Hiccups are a result of spasms of the diaphragm.
Using cell phones can cause people to become what?
What is involved in the cellular process of mitosis?
Drought Heat and drought go hand in hand.
Clouds are formed when water vapor releases what into the atmosphere?
Mussels are bivalve mollusks.
What are behavior that is intended to attract a mate?
Soil erosion is one of the leading causes of water pollution in the United States.
How do fish get oxygen?
What is a cactus stem used to reserve?
when a river floods , that river deposits soil in flood plains
An allergy attack is an immunal response.
what can affect the level of a lake
Chemical weathering causes what in rock to oxidize?
Plants and animals live, die, and decompose only to be recycled again.
What do viruses contain the most of?
Wind and rain can cause what?
When do animals need to replenish bodily water?
Insects are required for the transfer of pollen.
Carbon Monoxide Carbon monoxide is a health hazard.
All orange trees are plants.
Bears are proportionally weighted for use on a balance for measurement discoveries.
Rocks have mass.
What causes tooth decay and unhealthy gums?
Intrusive igneous rocks form underground.
Birds are endothermic tetrapod vertebrates.
What can live in a dormant state inside the body?
Developers planning housing tracts usually requires replacing what?
What being tilted on its rotating axis causes spring, summer, autumn, and winter.
What response are antibodies involved in?
Many fast food restaurants have published the nutrient content of their foods.
Health is essential to a quality life.
Rain water reaches rivers faster and can cause flooding.
Snakes live almost everywhere on earth.
What forms into peat through extreme heat and pressure over time?
Coral is made of the exoskeletons of many thousands of tiny marine animals called polyps.
A joule is roughly the energy used by a flashlight turned on for one second.
What do some cacti use waxy leaves for?
The offspring of two living things with white eyes have what color eyes?
What creates fantastic rock formations?
What do echinoderms employ to grip surfaces?
what causes soil to be washed or blown away?
what enters the egg?
what type of compounds produced by a person's pancreas help cells take up compounds
Flagella are elongated cilia which moves like a whip or a tail.
Shelf fungi are often found on dead and decaying trees.
what feed at more than one trophic level?
Metals vary in their capacity to conduct heat.
When the wire is moved across the magnetic field, it creates an electric current.
Energy-saving light bulbs are essentially fluorescent light bulbs.
Great egrets get food by doing what?
what causes rainbows?
Fire heats upwards.
Native species, such as cranes, use open water and barren sandbars for roosting at night.
Reproduction Organisms create young of their species by reproduction.
Viral and what disease can both be caused by injury of the lungs
Sandbars are preferred nesting habitat.
Roundworms Nearly all puppies and kittens have roundworms.
What do biologists use microscopes for?
Fronts define the boundaries between air masses.
How do salamanders usually find sexual partners?
The loss in length of what causes cells to age?
Mold spores, for example, are microscopic.
Without what, no object can be seen?
Most of the universe is in the plasma state.
Water is absorbed by a plant's roots.
What is produced by chloroplasts?
What is larger than ponds?
When the electrical circuit is working properly, what can happen?
Iron deficiency causes anemia and it weakens the immune system.
Glass prisms and mirrors are used to mainipulate the light rays.
the color of leaves on deciduous trees usually changes in the autumn season
What can slow the transfer of heat?
Cells cannot survive without plants breathing into what?
What causes ice to expand as it is formed?
Platypus and Echidna are mammals that reproduce by what?
Almost all physical characteristics are genetic traits, inherited from parents.
When an electrical circuit is working properly, what charge runs through that circuit
Scientists have shown that ocean organisms known as zooplankton harbor cholera bacteria.
Why does a snake look for shelter in the winter?
what is a cactus stem used for storing?
What describes something that requires activation energy to get started?
What can kill flowers?
Proper digestion is vital for nutrient absorption.
Leaves Leaves are the main photosynthetic organs of a plant.
Fires cannot burn where?
Sleepwalking seems to be a genetically inheritable trait.
what conserves body heat with their hair?
Coal comes from anciently buried plants, and petroleum is from animals.
what increases for an object because of force?
hurricanes convert heat energy into mechanical energy
a black hole is formed by a high-mass star collapses
What generally has a positive impact on an organism's health?
What do cigarettes cause?
What requires water for survival?
What does a plant need in order to grow?
Hurricanes and treacherous shipping lanes frequently scattered treasures and crews across the reef.
Some light bulbs waste less of their energy producing what?
Eyes can detect images and see light using what?
Energy strikes the molecule, causing it to vibrate more vigorously.
What displays less aggression when there are fewer older members?
Biology is the science of living things.
Dune grass is very important to the preservation of sand dunes.
Oxidation of iron minerals causes the redness of the rocks.
What do some animals use to find food?
Heat is caused by vibrations of the atoms and molecules of substances.
what gets energy from sunlight?
What part of the body are chemicals dangerous to?
Food People want pure food.
what are chemical messengers that control sexual development and reproduction
Smoking cigarettes will do what?
What does a tape measure measure?
What means a change from a liquid into a gas by adding heat energy?
The sun causes water to evaporate more, which can cause drying and what?
What does olification help some animals when they are hungry in the wild?
What are usually acquired from contact with infected animals?
Mammals are animals that have hair, are warm-blooded, and nourish their young with milk.
What information is in our DNA?
Carbon is the fuel source.
Some parasites, though rarely, make what die?
Strength is balanced with flexibility and all systems of the body are toned.
The work of what causes a river to become deeper and wider?
what happens when animals and plants evolve to environmental conditions?
Man is an animal with primary instincts of survival.
Aging is associated with the death of cells.
Some microorganisms cause meat to spoil.
Once it is cane, later it is sugar.
what do multicellular organisms have many of?
What causes breezes?
Sharks have a cartilage skeleton.
Marine species live mainly in areas teeming with what?
What can be done to meats and fish on the stove
Cell phones are a distraction to driving.
Something belonging to the phylum Platyhelminthes has what?
Some species of amoeba are harmful parasites.
Seasons are caused because the earth's axis is tilted as the earth revolves around the sun.
After the car is moving, the gasoline engine kicks in.
Animals have skin.
What are not cells?
What are antigens also?
Cold temperatures help food stay fresh longer.
a light bulb is used for seeing where to step what?
What do arteries carry in the body?
Yeasts Yeasts are small, single-celled plants.
What kills bacteria?
Which of the following can cause objects to repel each other?
cold fronts cause thunderstorms as they pass by
Relaxation of the body has a positive impact on a what
Viruses are strange life forms.
mutations that occur in genes that control the cell cycle lead to what?
What causes chemical changes in the minerals of a rock?
All consumers are also called Heterotrophs.
Protists are single-celled microscopic organisms like amoebae.
What does fertilizer supplement?
Plant reproduction requires something done by what?
Competition may cause animals to fight towards members in the same what?
what have a period of courtship?
What do plants do from a void of moisture in the air?
For men, however, the hormone in question is testosterone.
Fish and other animals eat tiny animals that feed on what?
Extreme heat and pressure change rock into what?
Corals form large colonies in shallow tropical water.
Most protists have the ability to do what at some point in their life?
Carbon may be stored in what for years?
Lung cancer is most often caused by exposure to tobacco smoke.
Seasons are caused by the motion of the Earth around the Sun and the tilt of the Earth's axis.
Sweat glands produce more sweat.
Recovery from illness, especially infectious illnesses, or operations, is slow in some people.
Carcinogenic or oncogenic effects cause cancer.
Arteries regulate blood pressure.
Decomposers produce nutrients for producers.
what happens to copper if exposed to heat?
Adaptive traits improve the chance of surviving and reproducing.
Insects hatch from eggs.
What do refrigerators do?
What has special structures for penetrating a host?
The stomach does what in the body?
rivers will fan out and deposit sediments near what
What animal can regrow middle segments when broken?
To make a liquid boil more easily when heat is applied, one should
Plants make their food by the process of photosynthesis.
Sound occurs when a body, such as a vocal chord, vibrates, or moves back and forth.
How do you remove bacteria from food?
What does aggression cause?
What in the soil converts a type of nutrient into a form usable by plants?
Roots are basic to growth, development and expansion.
Heat is Energy and is measured in Joules.
Olfaction is the sense of smell.
Children are most at risk for overexposure to UV radiation.
Many of the plants are fruit trees.
Stratus clouds are associated with a warm front.
What can generate heat?
What have no backbone?
Insects eat our crops.
Small streams join larger ones and are, themselves, joined by even smaller streams.
Melting, freezing, condensation, and evaporation are examples of phase changes.
What happens when fans circulate more air?
what reproduces asexually by budding?
Oxygen has  eight protons and eight electrons.
Sonar devices use sound waves to find things.
Refraction Refraction is the bending of light rays.
What does rain do to exposed soil?
motion can be converted into electrical energy with a what
Cancer is a disease that occurs when the cell cycle is no longer regulated.
Insect bites are another source of poisoning.
the emission of sulfur dioxide causes acid rain
Objects of different materials do what with those materials?
Bacteria can be killed to extend the shelf life of what?
The two-chambered heart of some backboned aquatic animals is part of their:
Most mollusks have what?
Earthworms are important deposit feeders that help form and enrich soil.
Introns are areas that
What is natural?
Animals and plants exist as populations.
the looseness of soil has a positive impact on a plant 's roots' growth in that soil
Cell division is the cells way of reproducing.
What increase the amount of nutrients in loam?
An example is H2O which shows water is made of two atoms of hydrogen stuck to one atom of oxygen.
Blood glucose is the substance that feeds our cells.
What phase change are we experiencing now?
Epidermis The epidermis forms the outermost surface of the skin.
When the magma cools and hardens, it turns into igneous rock.
a firecracker converts chemical energy into what?
Centrifugal force act along with gravitational force to cause an object to remain what
Fission takes place when an animal divides into two parts.
If fluid builds up within the lung tissue , it is called pneumonia.
Erosion is the work of wind, water, and time.
Food provides energy and health.
Solvent separated from the solution is likely to damage plants.
What causes days to change?
Neutrinos are produced in some nuclear reactions in stars.
Cephalopods have well developed nervous systems with complex brains capable of learning.
What sheds its leaves seasonally each year?
What helps to keep the body warm and protect it in a variety of climates?
Mirrors reflect light.
What relies on a relatively narrow range of something you can measure with paper strips?
Energy is passed up the food chain or web from producers to whom?
what causes acid rain?
Animals, plants, fungi and protists are eukaryotes.
Earthquakes can cause a tsunami.
Low rainfall means slow chemical weathering of rock.
Earthquakes are natural disasters.
What uses echolocation to find the location of an object?
How is heat transferred?
Roots growth in length and width are what type of growth of the plant
What is a source of energy?
All insects have heads, abdomens, and thoraxes, antennae, six legs, and wings.
boiling is when liquids are heated above their boiling point
Cells are what, so they are the building blocks of organisms?
What increases the amount of plant growth and is fundamental to all life?
If energy is conducted to an object what will happen to that object?
If a soil has high permeability, water flows through the soil more freely and may cause chemicals to leach.
Ejaculation occurs when muscle contractions propel sperm from the epididymes.
What is one thing organic compounds can be broken down by?
Water is essentially a perfect mirror, reflecting colors almost unchanged.
Amphibians also have immune cells arranged into organs.
Fierce emotion can be recorded from where?
What do ferns reproduce with?
Halos are produced by the refraction of light.
Carbon dioxide is a plant nutrient.
A thing which is what produces eggs and sperm?
Coal arrives at the power station coal handling area.
Water is shallow at the shore with gradual deepening.
Hair is produced by living cells in the hair follicles at the base of each hair.
Water moving sediment downstream creates what?
the method used by cells to reproduce is how organisms grow and what?
What allows plants to absorb energy from the sun?
Chrissospilias are formed by 
When the seeds are watered, they grow into a huge root, and then the root sprouts flowers.
Bogs are composed of peat.
Plants have a very clever way of using the energy from sunlight to make their food.
Sound vibrations have different frequencies.
Proteins are complex organic compounds.
What helps animals to survive?
Underfoot, loose rocks make footing perilous, while smooth marblelike stones make it slippery.
What is sediment?
Environmentalists say forest roads add to erosion, destroy habitat and affect animal migration.
What do migrants usually do?
In many cases cellphones are not the only distractions behind the wheel.
What does wiring require?
What have a centralized nervous system with a brain?
 _ are the major producers in terrestrial ecosystems.
These animals are the first to disappear as human disturbance increases.
coal is used for generating heat and can what?
Where can fossils be found 
What kind of soil is easier to cultivate?
Ice absorbs heat as it melts.
What may compete for territory, water, food, or mates"
what are formed by carbonic acid in groundwater seeping through rock dissolving limestone
Unequal heating of Earth 's surface by what causes polar easterlies?
what are endothermic?
What can cause severe damage?
All lakes in Kansas are reservoirs.
What is not released after riding a bike?
What can result when force acts on a moving object?
Adult echinoderms have radial symmetry.
What filters blood?
A breathing mask can prevent what kind of particle from entering the lung?
Tight fitting shoes can increase the pressure on the skin and exacerbates the pain.
What emits light waves?
What increases metabolism in cells throughout the body?
Yeast reproduce asexually by budding.
Hydrogen bonds cause a tremendous force when a substance does what
What does winter do?
What causes human disease?
animal what is sophisticated
How do organisms give rise to children?
What have humans grown for food for hundreds of years?
if an object is made of a material then that object has the properties of that material
Gravity creates force and energy.
Secondary growth forms secondary
Humans are complex organisms.
After a seed is planted it is watered.
Antibodies are the bodies way of fighting infection.
What occurs in gametes?
Feathers help birds fly and 
What can fatty acids be combined with, in addition to carbon and oxygen?
Fish are attracted by the vibration of the built-in action of the lure.
What are not cells, so they are neither prokaryotes nor eukaryotes?
Pneumonia may be caused by viruses or 
Infrequente urination or urine is dark yellow.
If the oxygen is removed, the fire is smothered.
Examples of such devices are PDAs, phones, and pagers.
What moves electrical particles in an object ?
Coral communities are found only in warm waters.
All cells share some of the same structures and what?
Some animals attract mates with scent.
How many ways can a bulb reproduce?
What typifies life?
Mold spores have what impact on breathing?
What do some animals need to survive?
Some food is dehydrated, while others are dried much like beef jerky.
Oceans are one of the largest ecosystems in the world.
what requires sunlight for photosynthesis?
Glial cells perform critical functions in the nervous system.
What is marble formed from?
What is the most likely reason someone might go over the speed limit?
Cells have multiple repair mechanisms to fix mutations in what?
General signs of dehydration include Thirst.
what does cross-pollination increase?
Wood products rapidly decompose and are biodegradable.
All cells share some of the same structures and basic functions.
My fingers can touch.
When it is summer in the Northern Hemisphere, it is winter in the Southern Hemisphere.
what vapor moves from plants into the atmosphere during transpiration?
Almost all animals display colors to attract a mate or to scare off a predator.
Active transport is another form of diffusion.
Many cacti also have a waxy coating that helps the plant conserve moisture in desert climates.
Friction in bearings causes an increase of the temperature inside the bearing.
Electrical particles in materials vibrate and accelerate.
what flows with ease through soil if it's permeable?
what can the eye sense?
what do prokaryotes have?
How do starfish communicate?
Vegetation includes shrubs and cactus plants.
Global warming is a part of climate change.
what are sponges?
what occurs over geologic time above the level of the species?
What is not possible without ribosomes?
Potted plants in season include chrysanthemums, daisies and cyclamen.
Earthworms crawl through the soil, eating sediments or dirt directly.
Where is BRCA2 located?
Microorganisms cause what inside of the cells of living organisms?
the cell body splits into two cells when in cell division in eukaryotes
What can a certain protein affect in meat?
Photosynthesis is the chemical change that produces food and oxygen in green plants.
What do geologists use to determine the age of rock layers?
What does a porcupine do with its spines when it's threatened?
Life Cycle Earthworms are hermaphrodites.
Cells have multiple repair mechanisms to fix what?
What is just one of many ways that pugs learn how to behave.
Carbon monoxide, a product of furnaces and engines, is a:
Beavers build dams.
Fungi do not contain chlorophyll.
Organisms use lipids to store energy.
Bacteria contain no organelles.
Black holes emit no light.
Heavy rains and runoff caused streams to rise rapidly.
Cell wall is the rigid structure that surrounds the plant cell.
Viruses Viruses are very small, a few nanometers in size.
Bacteria thrive in higher temperatures.
Oncogenes An oncogene is a gene that is capable of causing cancerous change.
Flashlights and remote controlled cars get their energy from batteries.
what requires energy for growth?
What requires sunlight to grow?
What type of energy can be used to cook food?
Animals are considered consumers .
Winds grind down rocks.
Monotremes are mammals that reproduce by laying eggs.
Fungi reproduce largely by the release of spores.
what substances are relied on for life?
How does a greenhouse protect flowers?
what can be used to make clothing for keeping warm?
Vesicle transport requires energy and a what?
building housing developments usually requires replacing animal habitats
Ice wedges, which are common in high, cold latitudes, can force soil particles together.
Mammals are animals with lungs, and they breath air.
Winds of 74 mph are the standard for a hurricane.
what does an automobile engine convert chemical energy into?
Bacteria and archaebacteria examples of what?
budding and fusion of vesicles in the Golgi complex involves what
Rock particles vibrate back and forth.
And the benefits of running, or any other form of exercise, are enormous.
What increases the rate of metabolism in cells throughout the body?
These belong to the class of creature that were the first true tetrapods:
What water dweller can be stimulated with amphetamines?
What precedes reproduction?
Humans are the unfortunate hosts of the deadly parasite.
When the waves pass our ears, a sound is detected.
Proprioceptive functions sense and maintain what?
Animals are heterotrophs, or other-feeders.
What can help decrease emissions?
Plasma exists inside stars and in interstellar gases.
Harming an animal species has a what on the size of a group of individuals of that species?
Chimneys top some hydrothermal vents.
Plants are multicellular eukaryotes with cell walls made of cellulose.
Food includes small rodents and birds.
Nerve endings in what part of the body can be used for detecting texture?
What has a range of sexual reproductive systems?  
Stems carry water and nutrients.
What is something that has specialized reproductive organs?
Air, heat and light cause dried food to spoil.
Bent light separates into the colors of a rainbow.
Flashlights provide the safest emergency lighting source.
What do phytoplankton and algae need in order to make energy?
Each engine produces 6,000 lb of thrust.
Fossils are the remains of prehistoric life.
Earthworm burrows are good for plants because they
When the strings on a guitar vibrate, they transmit their vibrations to the saddle.
Alcohol includes ethanol and methanol.
what pollutes the environment?
Cooler air can hold less water vapor than warmer air and condenses as clouds or in the form of rain.
periscopes are used to find out what about objects
What is produced when plastic is made out of petroleum?
What are the ova and spermatozoa of plants?
What do earthworms do when a segment breaks off
What communicates with subtle scents?
What are in the largest phylum of invertebrates?
Mollusks are invertebrates and are no exception.
Hormone therapy Hormones are substances that occur naturally in the body.
What on the Earth can be formed by weathering?
An organic molecule is one involving carbon.
What can be found on cancer cells?
what is a prism used to refract?
What in food is a source of illness?
What makes the pupil change sizes?
Bluebell tunicates are really pretty.
Trees begin as epiphytes on host trees.
Wool and some of the new insulated fleece materials are good.
insulated material can be used to prevent wasting a lot of what?
What in the sun causes the sun to produce light?
What produces grain?
Beads of water are formed when?
Looking the sun has a what impact on the eyes?
What causes something to form that pours and flows.
Flowers attract 
Some precipitation that falls on land soaks into the ground, into:
if a habitat can no longer support animals then those animals will move to another area
Bus transportation can be arranged.
What makes up the basic structure and function of all organisms found on Earth?
Smell receptors, nerve tissue that picks up smells, are located in the lining of the nose.
Visual pollution caused by littering is pollution, just as is water pollution and air pollution.
igneous rocks are formed from magma cooling
Animals hibernate in the winter.
If fertilized, the egg implants itself in the uterus.
What are used for moving people?
Flamingos are funny looking endothermic tetrapod:
Water in the Pacific Ocean freezes at a lower temperature than water in Lake Shasta. What is also true about these two bodies of water?
Genetic variation can be reduced by random genetic drift, population bottlenecks, founder effect.
Rising water vapor that condenses can lead to 
what falls on land, soaking into the ground and becoming groundwater?
What does evolution study over time?
What are hooked beaks adapted for?
Concentrations of what in the air have increased over the last 10 years dramatically
Salt is sodium chloride or NaCl.
Perspiration does what to the skin when it is evaporated from the skin onto the air?
What occurs when the tension of cell walls are eased?
Coyotes communicate by howling.
Proper hydration is necessary to stay warm.
Some flowers provide
If heat is conducted to an object what will that object do?
Each cell contains the code, in bundles called chromosomes.
Kittens that are practicing hunting is an example of what?
Animals use the body's cells to what?
Nothing alters a river as totally as a dam.
what has a negative impact on the body?
Biologists use microscopes to study things that are too small to be seen with the unaided eye.
Protists are both unicellular and eukaryotic.
Plastic is a big contributor to landfill waste.
Plants use sunlight to make energy.
_ have jointed exoskeletons.
What have a complete digestive system and a closed circulatory system?
DNA encodes the information for protein sequences.
What do flowers attract?
Water in the soil is absorbed by the roots of plants.
Nylon string is by far the softest sound on the guitar.
Animals use five major what to locate food?
What does air movement cause around the earth?
Plant growth, biodiversity, and adaptations of land organisms is influenced by:
What do heat coils convert into heat energy?
What does caffeine do to blood vessels?
High barometric pressure indicates clear weather.
moving what into muscles can increase a body's strength?
A beneficial effect of carpooling is
Coal is used to produce the movement of electrons by what in coal-fire power stations?
Assortative mating is the mating of individuals that are phenotypically similar.
What do Earthworms do to the soil?
Rust of iron in rocks is a direct result of 
Hydrocarbon emissions are one of the pollutants that create ozone pollution.
Electricity travels in a path called a circuit.
What does water easily flow through?
All pain receptors are free nerve endings.
Another form of aggressive behavior is known as territorial aggression.
What can refract light?
Stars shine because they are hot .
Heating with coal can cause 
Carbon monoxide is, of course, an air pollutant.
When will animals move to another area?
Energy of sunlight is more concentrated near the equator.
Humanity's use of mushrooms extends back to Paleolithic times.
Echinoderms are spiny skinned animals found only in marine environments.
Bacteria relies on a relatively narrow range of what?
If the weather is warm, their temperature rises.
Specialization occurs when competing creatures evolve as the what?
Temperatures are cooler in the higher altitudes of the mountains.
Fires are large uncontrolled flames.
What do wood burning stoves create to provide warmth?
What do animals without thick fur need to stay warm?
What swim from organs that produce hormones for fertilization?
What are protected from wild fires?
Mutations Mutations are random changes in the genetic information of an organism.
What is a form of natural insulation that humans have?
Mutations may change the structure of a chromosome or just change a single nucleotide.
Viruses are parasites of cells.
seed dispersal has a positive impact on a plant
Physiology is the study of the function of living things.
Tsunamis are often cause by what in the earth's crust?
Catalysts lower the activation energy.
what is used in light bulbs?
Blood is pumped by the heart into blood vessels called arteries.
Lie detectors are electrical or mechanical devices.
Bromeliads and cacti have adapted to very _ environments.
Vertebrate chordates have what part of the skeletal system?
Major route of excretion is in the feces.
Sunburns are a risk factor for skin cancer.
what does rubbing an object on another object cause that object to do?
Animals adapt to avoid what?
After the roots develop, most absorb what?
A lack of moisture in the air is experienced by what areas?
Conversely, a decrease in light intensity causes dilation of the pupils.
Shoreline currents carrying sediments build sandbars and spits across bay mouths.
Genes and chromosomes exist in pairs.
What can maintaining body position help you to do?
How does a battery work?
What can have a more complex nervous system?
A delta is formed by 
Mechanical energy is the energy of moving objects.
Folds are usually caused by compressional forces.
healing requires what as well as sitting
Most modern gymnosperms are trees with woody trunks.
Fish and other marine animals abound here.
Most soil nutrients are cations.
what have a circulatory system with a two-chambered heart?
Biomes are ecosystems that make up the land.
After lung cancer, the commonest cancers in Britain are cancers of the breast, bowel and prostate.
Muscle contraction occurs when muscle fibers get shorter.
What is broken down from larger to smaller pieces by weather in weathering?
Car crashes are a leading cause of death.
Androgens are male hormones, like testosterone.
Men seek the excitement of stimulants, because, for the time, the results are agreeable.
Which animal requires great amounts of water to survive?
An incandescent material is so hot that it glows, producing light.
What energy does a door doorbell need to be heard through speakers
What has a positive impact on an organism's health?
What causes cloudy and rainy weather?
When a hemisphere is tilted towards the sun, that hemisphere does what in the sunlight?
Another way to move a spacecraft is to thrust with gas jets.
For example, the sun releases energy needed to drive photosynthesis.
Some systems have an additional connection for a second doorbell switch.
Growth is part of the personality of a healthy organization.
moss causes chemical weathering
Earth revolves around sun, moon around the earth.
True Slime Molds Slime molds are a mucus-like organism.
What keeps some animals alive?
What do ribosomes have?
What does chemical weather cause iron to do?
Sinusitis Sinuses are a part of the upper respiratory system.
what gives electric power
What doesn't protect plants?
A plant requires food for what?
An allergy is a reaction to a substance the body recognizes as foreign.
_ have good eyesight and sense of smell.
Coral reefs fringe the shoreline.
When available food and water decreases, what cease to be a part of the balance of nature?
In what does a range of reproductive systems occur?
Alligators live in the swamps.
What fiber can be found only in warm-blooded animals?
using cell phones can cause people to become distracted
What can be caused by a faulting of the earth's crust?
What could have a positive impact on an animal's survival?
What decreases the freezing point of ice?
Flowers produce spores that develop into gametophytes.
when a hemisphere is tilted away from the sun , that hemisphere receives less direct sunlight
what flows to a light bulb to turn it on?
Plants require food in order to what?
What can cause objects to repel each other?
Earthworms can regrow their segments that break off and eat what?
Few families rival Piperaceae for difficulties at the species level.
Bats help flowers by spreading pollen.
what can being exposed to wind cause?
And, after a full day, relax to a sound and restful sleep in the cool, fresh mountain air.
Drought causes the water table to drop, heavy rains cause it to rise.
What produces spores that develop into gametophytes?
Solar energy heats surface.
Another symbolic object is the badge on the hat of Dinteville.
What does most wiring require?
Roots are the veins and arteries of the plant.
What happens to brain cells when the air supply is cut off?
What are invertebrates such as common garden pests with shells?
What breathes by relaxing the lungs?
Pituitary gland is called the master gland of the body.
How do cypress produce seeds?
What creates active immunity from a parasite?
Objects that are a few nanometers in size can be seen only with:
Emphysema can be caused by
Sometimes hunting can impact animal populations.
Moles will be protected from what?
RNA like DNA is a polynucleotide.
A mutation can cause a new trait to appear in 
Humans have collected and grown mushrooms for food for thousands of years.
Antibodies are also called gammaglobulins.
Good cigars or quality cigars contain only tobacco.
What type of behavior does an ant have?
Lipids may consist of fatty acids alone, or they may contain other molecules as well.
Sand dunes provide a habitat for several rare plant species.
Seeds of the conifers are often protected in their cones.
Cell Division Cell Division Cell division is the method used by cells to reproduce.
what do cycles of freezing and thawing water cause?
What does a squids circulatory system pump?
Among the small inorganic molecules which are economically attractive are CO and H 2 .
Mutation creates
Almost all turtles require great amounts of what to survive
Sponges are multicellular animals that belong to the Phylum Porifera.
Competition Animals compete for food and shelter.
Calories are units of energy.
what lack respiratory and excretory systems?
Permineralization is a second type of fossil formed.
Cancers are growths of abnormal cells.
Bacteria are one-celled organisms.
If vomiting occurs, turn the victim's head so that the vomitus is expelled.
What means changing from a solid into a liquid by adding heat from the sun?
If they are around aggressive dogs, they learn to be aggressive.
Growth of the cell normally means reproduction.
What do leaves form for the rest of the plant?
What transforms electricity into heat?
What does a greenhouse make plants do?
For example the skull bones protect the brain, and the ribs protect the thoracic organs.
Aggressive behavior is often first recognized as bullying behavior.
Vertebrates are members of of a larger group, the chordates .
Water carries the nutrients to the plants.
Lupron stops estrogen production causing fibroids to shrink in size and menstruation usually stops.
hitting an object causes the particles in that object to vibrate
What is the rate of ice wedging?
What from dead proteins help to insulate and protect the body?
Scraping oneself on an object that is what, may cause an invasion of the body by bacteria?
And geologic time is very, very slow.
Speciation is an extension of evolution.
Flood waters commonly contain high levels of bacteria.
UV radiation causes DNA damage and mutations 3.3.
Steel is the most useful of metals.
How can sunlight get to plants surrounding an oak?
How does a car engine create movement?
what can wood be burned for?
Hurricanes are categorized by the Saffir-Simpson Scale.
Gametes are often required for reproduction in:
What are lizards able to use their tongues to do?
What does a plant require for reproduction?
Which causes harm to living things?
Another name for Mars is the Red Planet.
Dilation is often uncomfortable.
What have chlorophyll and a characteristic life cycle?
Erosion is the breaking apart and moving of rocks and soil.
What has a nervous system?
What do species rely on to talk?
Radiation is the major method of heat transfer warming Bob's face.
Earth orbiting the sun causes something with how many different states to change?
Stalactites and stalagmites are common speleothems.
Cancer cells form new cells how?
Uneven heating of the Earth 's surface causes a movement of what?
Wind belts arise because of the uneven heating of Earth s surface by the Sun.
Familiar types of gamete include the female ovum , or egg cell, and the male sperm cell.
Where is ecosystem complexitiy generally least?
Sexual reproduction involves sperm and an egg.
What do organisms require to repair themselves?
What requires great amounts of water to use their gills to extract dissolved oxygen?
Additionally, a layer of fat beneath the skin provides insulation.
What controls anti-aging?
Winter is a horrible season.
Glucose, a type of sugar, is the body's fuel.
Adult frogs have what and breathe with gills as larvae?
Thousands of genes are linked together in a chain to form chromosomes.
what is distance measured in?
Bacteria that have been found at hydrothermal vents are of great interest.
Volcanic eruptions can also cause tsunamis.
Deep burrowing earthworms do what to the looseness of soil for root growth?
Courtship is behavior that is intended to attract a mate.
what do mammals keep warm with?
If all members of a species cannot produce offspring then that species will likely become what?
What do mammals use their body hair or fur to conserve?
doing what with tobacco decreases athletic ability
What happens to Genes located on the same chromosome
what happens in response to change in environment?
in weathering, what is broken down from larger to smaller pieces?
What in dirt helps plants get vitamins to grow?
Some mountains are caused by erosion.
What is a result when warm air advances on cold air?
What can break rocks and cause debris?
What does pressure cause?
what grows roots down into the soil to absorb water and minerals?
Water falls from the sky and flows downhill due to the force of gravity.
Why do bears hibernate?
What forms sinkholes?
When do vein deposits of gold and silver form?
Forests are a natural store of carbon.
Mating and courtship begins in late April.
Forest ecosystems, from trees to microbes, remove pollutants in a number of ways.
Specialization occurs when competing species evolve different adaptations.
What generally carries something bright red?
What can can organism to die?
Guard hairs protect the fur, while the fur insulates the mammal.
What has a positive impact on people?
what has a negative impact on the environment?
Chemical Bonding A chemical bond is the sharing or transfer of electrons.
What cools the skin?
What does a combustion engine convert into motion?
What does fanning a fire increase?
What causes rain?
What object absorbs all of the colors of the spectrum?
What leads to reproduction?
Neurons are the nerve cells within the brain.
Phytoplankton have a clever way of making food from what?
What can aid most animals in survival?
Evaporation of sweat uses energy, and the energy comes from body heat.
Being exposed to wind can cause the natural wearing away of what?
Some researches have reported that acid precipitation decreases crop productivity.
Pregnancy begins with a fertilized egg.
Descendant includes descendants of all generations.
Sunburn symptoms are skin redness and pain, possible swelling, blisters, fever, headaches.
What contains most of the energy used by people worldwided?
Cold wet weather, even without freezing temperatures can cause hypothermia.
